---
path: "/cathy-deng"
date: "2020-07-10"
title: "A Normal Task with An Abnormal Process"
author: "Cathy Deng"
hometown: "Shenzhen, China"
---

Would you believe if I told you in 2020 everyone has to wear a mask when they need to go outside? You may laugh because you think this is the funniest joke in the world. Even fog can not force everyone to keep on the highest alert (at least most people believe it is unnecessary to put on a mask). But the fact I told you did happen in 2020. After COVID-19, the pandemic disease, spreading through the world, I could see plenty of negative news on the Internet. This **enormous monster** had devoted millions of innocent lives, and each of us seems pretty small when facing it directly. Even so, my life was not affected by this disease at first. But when the appointed vaccine day came, I truly realized the inconvenience COVID-19 brought to me.
 
 
It was an ordinary Thursday, the only difference from regular was I grew up at 7a.m., when I made a 9 o'clock appointment of HPV vaccination at the Student Health Service, which lies on campus. After wearing a n-95 mask and putting a pair of disposable gloves, I grabbed a plastic bag from the ground and went out. To be honest, I did not want to take the shuttle because of a real event my mom told me several days ago: A student was infected by accident after touching the banister when he was walking downstairs. That’s really freaking me out. “You do not know whether the last person who touched the banister was infected”, she said. What if the virus lingered on the surface of my finger and I rubbed my eyes without consciousness? Will I become the next unfortunate victim? Coincidentally, I coughed when I was thinking; this reminded me of an article I read before, in which the author claims that many people had “fears of infection” during the quarantine period ([Brooks, et al., 2020][1]). In the midst of these whimsical fancies, I saw the shuttle appear around the corner and stopped in front of me. I quickly jumped into it as I was racing with time. The bus was empty; it seemed like no one wanted to step out of the room unless he or she had an emergency to deal with. Staring at the driver, who was the only person on this shuttle (except me), I could imagine the circumstance a month ago. The shuttle was full of students who were chatting with friends or looking at their phones. Sometimes there was no place to stand, let alone taking a seat, and the driver would say “The next Line-28 will come in 5 minutes!” I was usually grateful that I am the latest but the luckiest one who got on the bus before the door was closed. But now the reality was, I sat on a seat alone, considering if I would be late for the appointed time since I had waited at the bus station for twenty minutes.
 
After passing **a ten-minute ordeal**, I rushed out of the shuttle but was horrified to find that there was only ten minutes left from the appointed time. So I ran as fast as possible, just like a wild horse. I tugged my mask angrily, which stuck to my face and I could hardly breathe. How much time do I have left? I did not know. But I knew the beating of wings of crows annoyed me, and I had never been more hopeful than this moment that they could suddenly disappear. I could feel the sweat was slowly dripping from my neck, **clammy** and **unpleasant**. All the cells in my body were shouting for rest. “I will do exercise everyday if I can arrive at the health center on time.” I gnashed my teeth and made a decision in mind. Fortunately, the target gradually appeared in my sight. In minutes, it seemed like a century had passed.
 
<p>
    When I approached the entrance, two staff members stopped me. After asking if I had made an appointment before, they gave me a new pair of disposable gloves and let me wait outside for a moment. When I was changing gloves, I saw a man walking towards the staff while putting a silk scarf on his face, pretending it was a mask. Actually I saw many people utilizing this method last time when I was on the way to my friend’s home. Does that really work? I wondered. Five minutes later, Dr. Shirley called my name and took my temperature before letting me in. I was surprised by the rigorous process, but after a second I thought it would be necessary to make such a precaution due to the seriousness of COVID-19. When completing all the preparation work (such as checking in and filling information), everything became easy. It only took me four minutes to finish the vaccination process, which was even shorter than the time I spent on the shuttle. Sitting on the bench outside the SHS, I was reminded of the last time I came here with my roommate- **no thermometer, no gloves, and even no need to wear a mask**. COVID-19 has already changed my life a lot, which was imperceptible and unobtrusive, but undoubtedly brought many inconveniences to me.
</p>
 
<p>
    When I returned to my dormitory, I sprang into the bathroom to wash my hands, which my mom emphasized thousands of times. After throwing away all my disposable items, I found out a bottle of 70% alcohol from a drawer, which could be used as a method of disinfection. Bearing with the sharp odour, I cleaned my exposed belongings completely, including glasses and watch. In addition, I changed my clothes and sent them to the laundry; then I took a shower, which helped to keep awake efficiently. Honestly, this series of subsequent work brought lots of troubles to me, even driving me mad. Can alcohol disinfect bacteria thoroughly? I threw myself into the bed and thought. Actually, I am a procrastinator, but these inevitable tasks seemed to ease my “symptom”.
</p>
 
<p>
    I looked around in a daze. The room I lived in became a single room since my roommate had left for about two months. At first I believed if I stayed in the room without going anywhere, the Coronavirus would have no impact on my life. But I was wrong, the boredom **almost killed me** at first. It felt like a monster stared at you at every time, and coerced you to do whatever it wanted. No entertainment, but with the same tasks day by day. In Brooks's article, “The Psychological Impact of Quarantine and How to Reduce it,” he emphasized the frustration and boredom may be caused by the reduced social and physical contact ([Brooks, et al][1]). Humans are social animals, who can not bear a long period of isolation. However, humans also have **a strong resilience**, especially when they have no choice. During these months, my new daily routine has formed. For me, the activity areas include dormitory and Linda Vista (the place for picking up food). Wearing a mask became one of my habits, and I have adapted this kind of life gradually. In early May, I went to Costco to buy some necessities. Because of the previous experience of taking vaccination, I have become familiar with the preparation before going outside and the subsequent work after returning. That’s how human’s resilience functions in our daily life. Sometimes it is not that we can not adapt to the changing life, but we do not have the opportunity to make a change.
</p>
 
[1]: https://www.thelancet.com/journals/lancet/article/PIIS0140-6736(20)30460-8/fulltext