---
path: "/alice-wang"
date: "2020-07-10"
title: "Looking at Bright Side of Events"
author: "Alice Wang"
hometown: "Wuhan, China"
---

<p>Events in life that make us feel disappointed could happen. However,they also always have good implications to some degree. In fact, looking at the bright side of events gives us another way of experiencing the same events, and we could muster up more hope to overcome these difficulties.</p>

<p>COVID-19 has influenced the track of many people’s lives. For me, the most memorable moment is in the quarantine room. It was a ten square meters hotel room with two beds in the middle. Two windows had the dark thin film on it to filter the sunlight. The room was so silent that even a needle dropping on the floor could be heard. There was only me in this room and I have been trapped in quarantine in this room for almost seven days. Staring at the little crack of the windows and breathing in the chill air, something started to get worse. It should be good so far because I had the food brought in by workers and enough time for me to stay on my own. The internet should also provide the opportunity to stay connected with things happening outside and family and friends. However, life was more difficult. My eyes were sore concentrating on the phone and computer for so long; even though I connected with the phone, there is still a sense of emptiness for not being able to see their actual faces. The muscles on my legs began to wither because I did not have to run or jump. The real world, where I could go to class and live a normal life, had become a dream and was like the chill air breezing through the windows that made me desire for so much. I started to fidget and felt disappointed at the distance from reality. The idea of escaping the room from the door or windows has occurred a million times in my head. “we’re wired for human connection that can counter the damaging biological effects of stress and anxiety,” says Jane Brody(Brody). Maybe interacting with reality with sunlight and breeze is part of our nature and our desire to be in the real world could never be satisfied by any virtual reality. Restlessly, I **stormed** back and forth anxiously in this few-meters-long room as if this way there would be some miracle happening and I could get rid of this place then go back home immediately. To my disappointment, there was no magic lamp that appeared so that my wishes could be fulfilled even in this painful time. However, the energy started to be consumed and the anxiety was shed away along with this “long” walking. Feeling better and calmed down finally, I sat on the bed and started to let what had happened in the past month enter my mind.</p>

<p>The virus broke out in a huge market where all kinds of wild animals were sold in Wuhan, my hometown. Everything seemed unreal until my elder cousin’s husband actually caught a fever. It occurred so suddenly that I hardly believed it at first.</p> 

<p>Unlike the relatively undisturbed life in the rest of the world, there has already been chaos stirred up because of this in the broken-out place because it was not taken seriously in the first place. People were about to celebrate the New Year and they had a good time hanging out with others on the street at night. The night was crowded with laughter and cheerful music with young people dressed up in the most fashionable clothes and chatting with their partners, and the family enjoyed their excited moment uniting with each other. The disease went across people so fast that everyone was demanded to stay home in order to prevent the spread of the virus. The originally lively streets were empty all of a sudden, even for the most thriving commercial ones. The sky was grey with low clouds covering above, people’s mood was as grey as the sky. I could imagine hearing the howling of the cold wind filling up the empty space. Tall buildings with their doors shut standing lonelily along the streets, waiting for someone who will never come to visit. There were no cars, no people. Walking or driving on the street, you probably would believe that the whole city was empty. I constantly saw pictures of people's lives during this time in China. I saw that there was no one one the streets, but the supermarket was full of people who were able to go out shopping, grabbing as many vegetables as they could. When did cabbage become so valuable? Looking at the colorful food in the salad bar at the dining hall, I began to lose appetite and feel terrible for what they have been through.</p>

<p>I could finally fly back to China by airplane. Everyone in the airport wore masks or goggles. Seeing all the workers and passengers wear white protective suits, standing like soldiers and waiting to measure temperature or get tested, it was hard for whoever stayed in the room to not get nervous. We **meticulously** examined and sterilized what they were to touch and kept distance from others carefully. The ordinary white walls and the constant murmur of machines and people in the airport along with all the white masks and suites reminded us of being a hospital; it was something so undesirable that we were waiting for.  Hours and hours of slowly crawling off the long line, we finally reached the destination, left the airplane and prepared to take the bus to the hotel for quarantine.</p> 

<p>It was 2am at night. After about 24 hours of flight eating barely anything and wearing a mask, we were able to rest our feet. The light in the hotel hall was in dim yellow and the usual receptors were replaced with nurses and doctors who carefully recorded our information and tested for viruses. **Only silence and drowsiness could be heard.** The line for the registration extended across the hotel in a circular shape and even though we all wore masks, fatigue on our faces was still seen. We were all standing beside our luggages like trees, hardly had any energy to speak. There were murmurs occasionally from the crowd but that vanished very soon as people were in no mood for it. When I finally entered the room in the hotel, I felt such a relief after all that I have been through.</p> 

<p>From the beginning, I might have been in a worse situation if I caught a fever on the way back and were sent to a hospital. Staying in the hotel, and thinking of how stressful things have been in the past, I feel thankful for still being alive these days. I realize that hardship will happen in our life but it is more important that we face it positively and think of the bright side of it. For the case of quarantine, we could even take this valuable opportunity for personal growth, and utilize our time efficiently for learning new things. It is important to take positive measures to improve our situation. Like Dembling says in her article, we could participate in more social activities and keep our physical and mental health in a balanced place(Dembling).</p>
