---
path: "/tianyu-lei"
date: "2020-07-10"
title: "Angels in White"
author: "Tianyu Lei"
hometown: "Nanjing, Jiangsu Province, China"
---
When people hear the phrase “angels in white,” they often think of only the doctors who heal the wounded and rescue the dying. However, I believe “angels in white” refer to another group: **the staff and volunteers in white protective gear**. 

Spring is the season where the weather transitions from the frigid winter, and is often regarded as the season for new beginnings. It is a truly hopeful season. This year, however, due to the coronavirus, spring instead turns into a scene of devastation and death. The cherry blossoms bloom fall on the empty boughs, the normally noisy frogs remain silent, and the empty streets and alleys whimper in silence. On March 26, 2020, with a heavy and uneasy heart, I embarked on a journey back to China. I was not sure what to expect when I returned, but in the end, I was given the opportunity to encounter these white angels. By meeting them, I learned that under the catastrophic situation, there is a selfless love, which can go beyond relation and friendship, like a light in the darkness shining into my life.

I could not fall asleep on the plane because I was afraid of being infected by others or any potential accidents. Touching the porthole, my fingertips could still feel the icy cold glass through the disposable gloves. The cloudy sky threatened heavy rain, and the raindrops trickling down the porthole made vertical lines on the glass. After fourteen hours of flight, I landed at Shanghai Pudong International Airport at 5 p.m. Feeling chill, I walked out of the airplane cabin. I thought to myself, “Where will I go? When can I go back to my hometown Nanjing?” Nobody could give me the answers.

While still carrying these worries, my eyes fell on a large, striking red banner stating, “Welcome Back to China!” being held by the airport staff. They wore N-95 masks, goggles, blue gloves, and white protective clothing that made them stand out from the rest of the crowd. I felt a sense of ease and security for no reasons by seeing them.

A staff member, constantly waving to us and holding a speaker, spoke politely and powerfully. “This way please,” he directed. Some staff stood by the aisle and, without fail, reminded each arriving passenger to, "Always wear masks. Do not touch your eyes or mouth!"  Before we entered Customs, the staff took every passenger’s temperature. The staff carried out the task rigorously and efficiently, methodically directed the glut of passengers, and controlled the speed of taking temperature and screening. In the process of filling out the health declaration form, more information was required to fill than usual owing to the severity of the pandemic. Under the guidance of the staff, we waited in line, obediently. This was a temporarily added area, and it was noticeably large and bright. About a dozen tables were arranged in this area. In front of each table, two staff members were responsible for guiding passengers to fill in the forms. 

Awkwardly, I had forgotten some of the needed information and had to search on my phone. Adding on to the awkwardness of the situation, the network signal was weak, which caused the page to be too slow to load. I looked behind me and noticed the growing number of passengers that were waiting behind. I glanced at the staff member sitting in front of me and could not see his facial expressions under masks and goggles. I was so anxious that my back started to sweat. It was then that the male staff ended up stating gently and patiently, “Don’t worry. Take your time.” I could feel his smiling face and caring eyes even though they were obscured. After I completed the form, he carefully checked my information and helped me revise it.

I used to see scientists who wore white protective clothing in disaster movies, which established a link of dread with these white coats. However, these staff members in front of me, with their diligent work attitude and unparalleled sense of responsibility, like angels, eased my worries and guarded our safety and lives. 

At 9 p.m., after retrieving my baggage, we were concentrated in an area waiting for the buses that would take us to our own respective hometowns. Exhausted and hungry, we had not eaten dinner since we got off the plane five hours prior. Thankfully, the staff had prepared free food for us. They quickly opened the boxes and distributed milk and sandwiches to us. I graciously took their offering, but the light meal did little to satiate my hunger. I walked towards a staff member and asked if they had any extra food left over. She politely said to me, “I am sorry. All the food was distributed to passengers… But I still have a bag of instant noodles. Take it.” That was her own food. I refused to receive it first, while she passionately insisted on giving it to me.

**Holding my hands, she thrusted the noodle into my hands**, “No big deal, really. Take it!” Reluctantly, I took her generous gift and began to chat with her as I slurped the piping hot noodles. She provided me a glimpse into her life and work. She was a sophomore in college and had signed up to volunteer at the airport. “It is my turn on duty at four this afternoon. I have been working for five hours and have received four groups of passengers,” she exclaimed with pride and happiness lining her voice. Sitting next to this exemplary individual, I couldn’t help but notice that this mundane cup of noodles tasted far more delicious than usual.

Eventually our conversation was interrupted by the approaching convoy of buses. My companion then announced, “Here is the bus! Have a safe trip!” She turned away and without uttering a farewell to me, hurried towards a newly-arrived group of passengers. Sitting in the bus, I began to notice snowflakes dancing in the sky and blending with the staff’s white protective clothing. Even with the arrival of Spring promising new beginnings and warmer weather, it seemed that the sky mirrored the uncertainty and coldness of these uncertain times. Despite the frigid weather, one staff member stood in front of the bus door and carefully checked the personal information of each passenger. Meanwhile, some of the other staff members made a concerted effort to help passengers carry their luggage into the bus. I spotted two staff members running from a distance and reporting back to the group leader. All the while, the snow continued to fall harder with each passing minute. Shanghai had been enveloped in a thick, white quilt. Despite the torrential snowfall, the staff members pressed on with their tasks, seemingly ignorant to the flurry surrounding them. It seemed as if nothing could stand in the way of these ethereal beings.
The bus lurched forward, and these white angels slowly disappeared from my sight. 
Under my breath I uttered a single, silent, "Thank you."

Two months have since passed, and I am currently residing with my parents in my hometown of Nanjing. While no new cases have been reported in Nanjing for quite some time, thousands of oversea travelers arrive in Nanjing every day, meaning that those angels in white that helped me are still needed. I have made the decision to join them during this summer break so that I, too, could potentially leave the same impact they made on me to someone else in need. 
      
In the poem “Hold Your Own,” the author, Kate Tempest, stated, “*Love is a mission*,” which is the most impactful line for me. Indeed, those selfless and industrious staff members performed their mission with deep enthusiasm, consistent dedication, professionalism, and a positive attitude, like white angels freely giving us warmth and watching over our safety. I never learned about the power of unconditional love before meeting them, and the value that it holds. Love can heal the pain brought upon by this pandemic, and it can make the world a peaceful place.
