---
path: "/frank-fan"
date: "2020-07-10"
title: "The Best Weapon to Fight COVID-19"
author: "Frank Fan"
hometown: "Beijing, China"
---

As the landing gear gently touched the runway, I was woken up, seeing the view of an alien environment.  It was the plane that landed at JFK international airport five years ago, and it was the first time for me to step onto the land of the United States. Luckily, during my four-year high school career, I had never savoured the taste of homesickness. However, during the outbreak of COVID-19, that unfamiliar, acrid sense of longing for home finally broke into my heart. Due to the rigorous situation of the pandemic, international travelling has been minimized. Even worse, xenophobia against overseas students has been developing both in China and the U.S.. Being unable to return, my mental condition started to collapse. However, I was saved, and that made me realize the power of friendship and the importance of a positive attitude: they are the **ultimate weapon** fighting against not only the biological virus but also the malice from other human beings.

## Desperation 
On an overcast but energetic Wednesday morning, I started the coffee brewer for a refreshing coffee, a routine since spring break had started. As the crackling and buzzing from the machine continued, the living room was heavy with the smokey aroma of coffee beans. Today’s task was to list items needed to be brought back to China after a week and send others to Lei, a friend of mine who lives close to me and allowed me to store my gears in his garage. As I was enjoying the smooth, fruit-like aftertaste of my favourite Columbia Coffee, I was rather frightened by a call from Air China. Presuming being the confirmation of my ticket, I picked up the phone. Suddenly, the lawnmower downstairs was fired up, and the noise blurred almost everything delivered by the agent. However, I still received the two words; they were so penetrating, like a needle pierced into my eardrum. “Flight cancelled.” The lawnmower kept **screaming**. The revving engine was **laughing** and **ridiculed** me for my pitiful situation. The gasoline whiff dawdled in the room, suddenly jostling into my eyes. The tear was sour and grievous. My phone slipped through my hand, my arm fell down on the sofa, and my eyes were staring at the wall while I had nothing to focus on. My day was pathetic and discouraging like a balloon blowing out air and falling on the ground. The cancellation, however, was due to the regulation that each international flight to mainland China should have the occupancy of no more than [**seventy-five percent**][“CAAC”], and I was the other predestined twenty-five. Every time when I started to dream about getting on board the flight to Beijing, I was always slapped by the skyrocketing price of the flight ticket propelled by numerous oversea students who wish to go home. 

# Indignation and Helplessness
On the dimmed, chilling dawn, the frustration and anxiety of being unable to go home were driving me to insomnia. I wrapped myself up in the quilt and tried to banish the distracting thought.  Eventually, I was determined to express my feelings out loud. I turned to Weibo, the Chinese version of Twitter, and complained about the policy and poured out my grievance. Although I felt relieved, I was totally unaware of my inbox being jammed by hatred comments. As the sunlight radiated through the blades and shone upon the wall, I woke up, grabbed my phone, and was shocked by hundreds of unread comments. Some insisted that we, students who study abroad, have already **betrayed** our country and should **never** return. While others asserted that not coming back is the most compelling evidence of the love to our country, and coming back is solely being **selfish** and bringing the pandemic. Used to crave social media, I started to vacillate my standpoint after reading those messages and even believed in [Dembling’s][1] words that “Twitter is just a bunch of people all yelling at once” (Dembling). I started to question my identity: is the pandemic the fault of overseas students? Indignation, desperation, fear, all those negative feelings started to burst out. I curled myself up, being immersed into the infinite darkness, the void. 

## Friendship, a Favourable Turn
While I was laying on the bed for the whole morning, my stomach started to protest, demanding the energy to keep the body running. I kicked away the quilt, dragged to the kitchen, and opened the refrigerator: it was almost empty, just like the shelf for kitchen towel at Costco’s during mid-March. I had the yoghurt, which tasted as insipid as a candle wax. Still, my stomach’s demand was not met, so I didn’t have the energy to go to the supermarket. But there was no way for me to magically produce the food without going to the grocery store. Just at the time when I was about to sink into the vicious cycle, I received the call from Lei, who invited me to go to the Chinese market in Los Angeles. At first, I rejected because LA has much more confirmed cases, and I was very nervous about being infected. Then he was tempting me with the Chinese snack that I missed so long, and I eventually agreed with reluctance. As I stepped out of the door, I was welcomed by the April sunshine and breeze in California; they were like the **catalyst** leading to happiness that whipped away my depression. Soon, Lei arrived in his Dodge Hellcat, and its baby blue painting reflected the sunlight like the ripples of the ocean. I looked at Lei, who indolently sat on the driver’s seat--his sunglasses shone, lip smiled with confidence, his hands dangling sluggishly on the steering wheel. I hopped in, feeling grateful to [Brody’s][2] advice on exchanging numbers with neighbours because “this disaster has brought out the best in people in many communities'' (Brody). We departed and soon speeded through route 101. Following the twisted coastline and the empty beach, I asked Lei if he is scared of being unable to return. He lowered the volume of the music, thought for a while, and said: “no matter where we still have trouble to deal with. In China, there is **xenophobia** against overseas students, and here we have coronavirus. It is fortunate to only have one to suffer.” After he finished, he kicked the pedal down, and the car roared past a huge chunk of cloud, and we were galloping on the straight highway right next to the coastline in Ventura. As the car was pulling forward and my adrenaline surged, I suddenly realized that there are enormous valuable moments that we can appreciate at present and reminisce about in the future. Being frustrated by the current pandemic is not necessary, especially by others’ prejudiced comments. 

After we finished shopping at the grocery, we went to the boba place as usual, just with our masks on. I arrived at home with my bag full of my favourite snacks and ingredients for the dinner and a mind brimming with positiveness. Now, I **deleted** Weibo, avoiding adding more disorder to my life. Sometimes, I drive to my favourite restaurant to pick up my food. Watching my favourite TV show while having the Korean stew with beef that would melt in my mouth, my days during COVID-19 begins to colourize. My family and I have regular video chats, so we can still see each other and ease my pain of homesickness. I sometimes meditate on the balcony in my apartment. The breeze murmured through the trees was the stream that carried away the distracting thoughts, and, as [Balcetis][3] suggested, bringing the “opportunity to reinvent ourselves” (Balcetis). 

## The **BEST** Weapon
One month to my 20th birthday, on an overcast Wednesday morning, my delusion of going back home was smashed. It was the call from China, deeply engraved in my memory, that cut the bond between me and Beijing into half, slamming the gate of my home indifferently, pushing me down to the dark, cold abyss. Some people in China, who thought we were spoiled, immature kids, were spitting on us, kicking on our collapsing mental condition. A month passed and looking back now, I discerned that there are so many precious moments and the friendship that we need to cherish instead of curling up in the dark corner and closing the window of our mind. The virus can affect a person physically, but it can never deteriorate one mentally unless he grants the virus. Therefore, we need to know **how to adjust our mindset to be more positive**. In addition, a friend can save a person from adversity and pull him back to track. Those are our **best weapons** to fight against COVID-19.
	

###Works Cited
Balcetis, Emily “A Silver Lining of Social Distancing.” Accessed 19 May 2020
Brody, Jane E. “Take Steps to Counter the Loneliness of Social Distancing.” Accessed 19 May 2020
Dembling, Sophia “Introverts, Extroverts, and Social Distancing.” Accessed 19 May 2020


[1]:https://gauchospace.ucsb.edu/courses/mod/page/view.php?id=3670298
[2]:https://gauchospace.ucsb.edu/courses/mod/page/view.php?id=3670278
[3]:https://gauchospace.ucsb.edu/courses/mod/page/view.php?id=3670288
[CAAC]: http://www.caac.gov.cn/en/XWZX/202003/t20200326_201748.html
