---
path: "/gina-gu"
date: "2020-07-10"
title: "True Self"
author: "Gina Gu"
hometown: "Shanghai, China"
---
“Actually...I am seeing a psychologist.”. The sentence is spoken in a careless way, but what I feel is way more heavy and dark. It has been several months since I moved to this empty haunted house in Chicago. Yes, I was in Santa Barbara for school, but something broke out unexpectedly---- Covid-19, a powerful virus that is extremely contagious and could easily spread through the respiratory tract, and it even has a 2-week incubation period that deceives people and sneaks into healthy bodies. About two weeks after the outbreak of the coronavirus in America, our campus was shut down and all of the students in UCSB—including a huge proportion of international students—had to make choices on where to go. Most of my international student friends stayed in the Santa Barbara area, and some of them took the extravagant ten-thousand flight back to their homeland. But I chose to go to Chicago, a city with no direct relatives and friends, but only a couple of my father’s business partners. I know this is surprising, but I just didn’t want to live in the dorm by myself, and I need the safety of health and food under the pandemic. 

Thus, I chose to leave Santa Barbara and came to this **city of loneliness**. However, I only planned to stay in an empty house for one week to self-quarantine and move to another place, but I’ ve been here alone for nearly 200 days and counting. Since I moved here, no one has visited me for the purpose of chatting or spending time with me, and the only people I met these days were those ‘aunts and uncles’ who basically only pick up my trash every week.  To be honest, it has been torturing living alone without another person, and it is difficult to keep myself fully occupied to focus on school work. However, despite lots of people believing that Covid-19 has only brought bad consequences, I actually had some important self-realization because of my self-quarantine life. 

After 6 hours of flight and fright, I arrived at the house excitedly, wearing my big and cozy denim jacket. I could finally take off my stuffy mask and rubber gloves. I quickly entered the house, and was shocked by its mammoth space. There are two floors, four bedrooms, two and a half bathrooms, two living rooms with French windows and 70 inches TV, a bright and spacious kitchen, and an empty but vim and vigor backyard. And all this was prepared for only me. I went out to shop quite often at the beginning, so I filled the house very quickly with food and articles daily. I wanted it to be more like a ‘home’. 

After everything settled down, I started to become bored living here in the meantime of spring break, which I didn’t have any school work to do. As a psychology major student, I understand that maintaining social events, even through texting, voice messaging, and FaceTiming is necessary, and I experienced something similar with [Jane Brody][1] that these social contacts could make a big difference in ourselves by building connections with our friends. At that time, I chatted more often with friends on WeChat, posted my daily life on Instagram, and downloaded a new social app called Soul (like Tinder) to meet some new friends online. However, my boredom did not vanish, instead it gradually turned into loneliness and a sense of unknown despair. So when I received the reminding email of CAPS psychological counseling, mentioning that my appointment was postponed and rescheduled from last quarter, I decided to see the counselor without hesitation. Before every appointment, patients have to fill in a self-test chart before seeing the psychologist. The chart asks about how the patient feels regarding his or her mental state, as well as how he or she feels about surrounding people. I wrote that I felt sad all the time, had sleeping difficulties, and also was unmotivated towards school work. 

Things got worse the third week after I arrived in Chicago when I was confronted with many disappointing facts. Actually, I found my father lying to me for more than 4-5 years, and I figured that out through a Tik Tok video. Although I cannot bring up too many details, it totally broke my heart. The questions I had for years were finally answered, but in an extremely brutal way. At the same time, I had doubts about myself, and I was especially losing confidence in my future gradually. My mom never trusted I could make good decisions, and she overly interfered with my life and tried to make decisions for me. Since my college tuition is sponsored by my parents, sometimes I have to take their advice even if I knew this was not what I wanted. I love myself, but I felt lonely and almost desperate about the future I would have. What I had in my life is a family that barely loves me in the way I wanted, some friends that always disappear when I need them, and a world full of lies and vanity. Most importantly, I did not have the courage to break those restraints and expectations. I was too weak to fight back those veiled feelings. 
Every question in the chart is labeled. As a psych major student, I understood what the numbers mean. I was feeling worse. There were so many problems that were unresolved but could only be solved by myself. I told the psychologists that I had been crying several times a day, and it had been uncontrollable and even without fixed intervals. And my sleep routine is completely broken these days. I felt helpless just as [Sophia Dembling][2] experienced when she was self-quarantining for almost 8 months because of both illness and Covid-19. 
	
But when there is a question, there is a solution. Back to the first week I got here, I met a guy on a social app. We have been talking about everything and accompanying each other through phone calls. He and I are quite different. He is like fire, ignited with passion and bravery, and he is also cynical about the iniquity of the society. Oppositely, I am like snow, transparent and delicate, touching everything gently, and I always try to empathize with other people and creatures in the world. 

This guy taught me a lesson. A week before, when we were arguing a question, he told me something that I would never forget. He said that I was like a cup of water that changed its shape in every different container. He thought that I didn’t really have a “self”, because all I knew was how to let others feel happy and comfortable, and he believed that I didn’t even know how to love myself. What he said was piercing, but I felt it was somehow true. He said even if I cooked tasty food for myself everyday and tried to stay happy, I still don’t love myself because I never loved what I already have, and thus I am never satisfied. I could feel that because I did not believe my accomplishments and thoughts were valuable enough, and I always needed others to tell me if I was doing good or not. The spring of self-reflections gurgled, and I started to think about his comments. 
	
Next time I met my psychologist, I asked him to discuss a casual little decision with me. Since there were already [more than 1.5 million people infected][3] and the number was still rapidly increasing, the school announced that our summer session and even fall quarter would turn to remote teaching. I said that I wanted to stay in the US because I was not willing to get up at 3 am to attend classes, but I was also longing for my homeland because of the overwhelming loneliness I experienced in Chicago. There were a lot of factors involved, and I spent a lot of time explaining my situation. Out of surprise, he only asked me a question: “What do you want? The answer is always what you want.” This simple but educational question hit me like a pebble hits a stagnant pond. I didn’t answer, because my mind winded back to some memories. 

>“What do you want? The answer is always what you want.”
>
>-**My psychologist from CAPS**

Several months before the epidemic, I was burning my youth under the dazzling all-pervading California sunshine, enjoying days with my friends brimming with the energy of our ages, and also digging in the stodgy and heavy homework. At that time, I could easily reach out for food, supplies, and other resources. Most importantly, I got immediate support and care from people and communities. But now, I am totally on my own. These months, I have been ordering food online or cooking for myself, trapped in this freaking big empty house, and difficult to get support from others. However, I think the way I adjust my life is positive. I overcame my sleeping difficulties, spent more time on studying, and as others suggest, I exercise regularly to keep myself healthy ([Dembling][4]). I not only pay attention to my physical health more, I also learned techniques to reduce psychological problems such as stress and anxiety. 
	
After that counseling was over, I stood by the French window and focused on the objects outside the house because my psychologist said that this was useful for reducing anxiety. **The beautiful dusk of Chicago gradually deepened, with the sultry wind gently touching my face; the houses were blended in the darkness, but the dim and warm light still lighted up the scenery.  Nothing actually moved, except from the trees that were faintly shaking in the wind.** However, it was the stillness of this nature view that drove my thoughts. The soft sound of this season was calling something in my subconscious. Then the obscure question “What do I want? ” came back to my mind. It was difficult to answer, thus I started to think about the question with a similar one: “What do I like?” 

>“What do I like?” 
>
>-**Me**

So far, I enjoy cooking, and it is not just because I need to eat; I love writing poems, because it is something that carries my thoughts and emotions; I love debate competitions, and I won't give up even if I am not the best; I love psychology, and I won’t step back this time no matter what anybody says. I was afraid of letting others disappoint me, including my family, friends, and everyone who knows me. However, I am more capable of seeing through others right now. Some people are worth company and love, but some are meant to leave your path of life. 

Actually, the answer to  “What do I want?” doesn’t matter much because the thing I learned from Covid-19 is more important. That is, I should trust myself and be brave to love what I like. I want to live the best of me. 

**I feel like I am more ready for the future right now.**

[1] www.nytimes.com/2020/03/23/well/family/coronavirus-loneliness-isolation-social-distancing-elderly.html
[2] www.psychologytoday.com/us/blog/the-introverts-corner/202003/introverts-extroverts-and-social-distancing
[3] news.google.com/covid19/map?hl=en-US&gl=US&ceid=US:en.
[4]www.psychologytoday.com/us/blog/the-introverts-corner/202003/introverts-extroverts-and-social-distancing