---
path: "/wen-jin"
date: "2020-07-10"
title: "One World"
author: "Wen Jin"
hometown: "Chengdu, Sichuan, China"
---

The world is always praising the sunshine in California, but most of them ignore the fact that the rain in California is really annoying. After studying world geography, many people will be surprised to discover that California also has a Mediterranean climate. Mediterranean climate sounds like an exclusive term belonging to the European Mediterranean region, and thus this word is endowed with the lethargy and romance of the Mediterranean. This climate makes California warm and rainy in the winter and hot and dry in the summer. California always gives people the impression of incandescent and enthusiastic, seemingly at odds with the temperament of the Mediterranean climate. I'm from a mainland city in China, which shares the same latitude line with Los Angeles. The temperate continental climate in my hometown makes me habitually think that winter is dry, and people should walk slowly through the streets in thick down suits; that summer belongs to torrential rains, that the smell of the air comes from the dampness of the deep earth, and children streak in flip-flops in the downpour. However, an unprepared rain in the early spring made me suddenly realize that this was a very **different place from home, and the rain seemed to foretell a real storm was coming.**

The afternoon of late March in California was sometimes cloudy and gloomy, with plenty of moisture of an early spring day; the sea breeze was sweeping over the shore and the sea gulls were strangely quiet. Such relaxing scenario is what I thought I would have when I enjoy my spring break, but life changed dramatically. In mid-March, the final week of the winter quarter was coming, and I was supposed to be busy preparing for the final week, but I was standing in front of the bank opposite the Home Depot. Just the day before this day, the UCSB president sent an email to all students and faculties confirming that the spring quarter would be an online quarter. Also, most of my classes canceled their final exams, and the rest of my classes decided to have online quizzes. This completely disrupted all my plans. In one short day, my friends and I made many important decisions and quickly took action. We decided to cancel our dorm room for the spring semester, to purchase a return ticket which would take off a week later, found a house in Goleta where we could store our luggage, and began preparing for the move. So, we came to Home Depot to buy boxes for moving and protective clothing which is needed to be worn on the plane. As for why we were standing in front of the bank across the street from Home Depot, it was because we just got off the bus, and then it was pouring. There was still a whole parking lot between the bus stop and the Home Depot, and we really did not want to walk in the rain. Therefore, we had to hide from the rain in the bank nearest the bus stop. The rain poured. The cars roared, hurtling along the road. The buildings were still and covered by the haze smoke. We waited silently. 

Fortunately, the rain in California came and went fast, and we only stood for a while before it got smaller. We put our masks on and walked towards Home Depot. The epidemic was not widespread at that time. There were only one or two hundred people confirmed coronavirus in the whole of California, and two of my friends and I were the only groups of people with masks on the entire street. Wearing a mask is a common occurrence for many Asians, air pollution caused by industrialization, pollen allergies caused by the pollen that flies around every spring, and the desire to cover up a swollen and tired face in the morning are all reasons why people wear masks. Apparently, because of different environments and living habits, people in California are not familiar with wearing masks.

The occasional glare from passersby makes us feel a little embarrassed. The most embarrassing thing happened as we passed the flower and plant market and about to enter the home deposit. A mother and son walked out of the market, the son, only about three or four years old, bounced around holding his mother and asked, "Mom! Why are they wearing masks?" I glanced at the little kid—his hat of the down jacket blocked his forehead, arms waved, his eyes were full of doubt. My friends and I quickly exchanged glances and then picked up the pace. "This is so embarrassing!" I said in a very low voice to my friends. At this point, both racist and racial equality videos that I have seen on the internet pop up to my mind. Some of them were serious and some of them were hilarious, and they just messed up my brain. We sprinted away while we kept talking to each other in order to muffle the voices of others. Not only did we not want to hear, but also we were very afraid to hear the answer from that mother. A month later, I have been staying at my uncle's house in Los Angeles for some time due to the cancellation of my flight back home. During this social distancing, I stayed at home and only went out once a week for purchasing necessities.

For the first two weeks of the month, which was also the first two weeks I just left Santa Barbara for Los Angeles, my aunt, and only went to the Chinese supermarket. Due to the seriousness of the epidemic in China, the Chinese overseas began to take this issue seriously at an early stage, and everyone quickly put on masks to take precautions, so my aunt thought that just going to Chinese supermarkets during this time would be a safe option. As expected, during the first week when the epidemic in the United States was not so severe, we walked into a Chinese supermarket and found that everyone was wearing masks, and the cashier was separated from customers by a clear plastic at the checkout counter. Just over the next week or two, the number of people being infected with the coronavirus in the United States skyrocketed, and all American citizens became aware of the problem. Two weeks after I arrived in Los Angeles, my aunt and I went to the local supermarket for the first time. When I looked around, everyone was wearing masks. No matter the masks were made of cloth, cotton, or medical material, everyone wears them. It is not just the U.S., but it is the rest of the world that's joining the fight against the coronavirus. When the virus was first spreading outside of China, many people thought that wearing a mask was a sign of illness and a sign of spreading the virus, which raised the issue of discrimination against people who wear masks. But now, No one would think it is a strange thing. Wearing masks and staying at home became a responsibility for not only protecting themselves but also protecting others. 

That is why I mentioned the climate of Los Angeles and my hometown at the beginning of the article. Each place in the world has its unique characteristics. They have different climates, geographic environments, carry different cultures, and breed different people. However, these differences can be ignored when a disaster happens which can impact the health of all human beings. People are carrying the same blessings, holding the same beliefs, overcoming the same difficulties and taking the same actions. At that moment, I suddenly realized what a Community of Shared Future for Mankind is, and I had a better understanding of the global village. There are millions of invisible connections among us binding all humans together.
