---
path: "/tongxi-yu"
date: "2020-07-10"
title: "The Power of Empathy"
author: "Tongxi Yu"
hometown: "Wuhan, Hubei, China"
---
I've never thought about my hometown, Wuhan, would be known by the world one day in a way that everyone wants to avoid. However, it still happened. In January 2020, an infectious virus outbreak was noticed in Wuhan, China. In a few days, Wuhan became "famous" around the world, yet followed by the word "virus." We all know now that the virus is called COVID-19, and it had become a global epidemic within a few months, but in the first few weeks, when it hasn't gotten its official name, it was called "the Wuhan Virus." 

I didn't understand what the impact was for the virus to be called "the Wuhan Virus" at first. It seems to be an ordinary name with no special implication, but as time went on and the situation got worse, I realized that the name is linking Wuhan with the virus tightly, which can cause avoidance from other people towards the city and the people from Wuhan. More importantly, the avoidance of other people showed hurts. The early morning of that Monday in January was dark and oppressive, with the chill of winter; the wind was shaking the windows, and the sunlight was missing. I turned on my cell phone and saw one of my friends made a new post of a shared article with an angry emoji. The title of the article was" I Could not Bear What My City Had Suffered." In the article, the author described how the virus was spreading in the city, how he was worried about his parents who have poor health, and blamed people from Wuhan "had brought the virus to my city," saying "could people from Wuhan stop coming to our city now." Those blaming words stood out to me like they were intentionally highlighted by someone while I know they weren't. That was the first time that I clearly saw the avoidance towards us who are from Wuha. I was stunned on that page for a while, trying to figure out what my feelings were. Was I feeling hurt, guilty, helpless, angry, or a mixture of all? 

I could feel the anger and worry between the author's words, which made me feel sorry about the people in that city. The outbreak did happen in Wuhan, and it was the fact that the first case in their city was someone from Wuhan went to their city and had been tested positive, causing the virus to spread to people who got closely contacted with him and further to an even larger population. It seems that it is our mistake to bring the virus to other cities. However, I would never believe that anyone from Wuhan would intentionally try to spread the virus to other regions. January was the time of Lunar New Year; most people were traveling to other cities to reunite with their family. Thinking about my parents and grandparents in Wuhan who could not get together this year because of the local government’s requirement to stay at home, I almost wanted to shout at the author," Have you thought of the life in Wuhan when you say your city is suffering?" **The words on my phone started to become blurry to me, then a tiny drop of tear on my screen made me realize that I was in tears. The sentences shouted themselves. All the criticisms came out from the screen to trap me in the middle of them. The air was thick and heavy. They suppressed me.**
I took a deep breath and tried to hold back my tears with all the force I've left; my body was tightened and I could almost feel it shaking. I decided to leave a comment to the author to say sorry to the people in the city, to explain that people from Wuhan didn't mean to spread the virus and to tell him that Wuhan was in the most difficult situation at that moment. More importantly, I am much more worried about my family, who are in Wuhan, the center of the epidemic at that time, than he was about his family. I typed a long paragraph expressing all my feelings without any hesitation, the words I typed were sincere while excursive.** However, when I was about to send the comment, I hesitated. My finger hung in the air, waited, instead of touching that "post" icon.** I started to think of where my feelings came from. I felt sorry because I'm one of the many citizens in my hometown, Wuhan,  and we had brought people in other cities worries when we were travelling to their cities. However, the origin of my anger and helplessness is not that obvious. I stared at the comment that I was about to send. I felt angry because I think people in Wuhan are having a more challenging time while the author only cared about what his hometown was suffering, and I felt helpless because I believed that people outside Wuhan did not care about Wuhan that much as the people from Wuhan did. These all lead to the conclusion that I generated those feelings because I don't think the author had enough empathy to us.

After sorting out the origin of the feelings, I felt the heavy burden laid in my chest was removed; I started to delete the words I've typed. If I felt hurt because of the absence of empathy, I should doubt myself if I had the amount of empathy that I was expecting. Based on what I've typed, I have not. Just like Alfred Adler had written “Empathy is seeing with the eyes of another, listening with the ears of another and feeling with the heart of another.” ([Empathy Exercises: Two Strategies to Help You Connect with Others][1]) I should feel within the heart of the author of that article. I was blaming him for not considering the life in Wuhan and the feelings people in Wuhan would have from the perspective of someone from Wuhan. However, if I were someone from his hometown, would I be able to consider someone's feeling far away from me when my closest family and friends' health are under threat? I have to say that I might not be able to. We were, in fact, having the same emotions: the anxiety caused by the uncertainty towards the rapidly changing situation and the worries to our family. He was expressing his thoughts just because he felt unsafe and wanted to protect the people around him. I also wanted to protect the feelings of people in Wuhan, so I tried to refute him. Neither of us was trying to hurt others' feelings; we just needed the chance to feel other people's feelings from a different position. There was no need to feel angry or disappointed when we have different views since we were just in different positions and having the same level of care for the ones we love.

>Empathy is seeing with the eyes of another, listening with the ears of another and feeling with the heart of another.
>
>-**Alfred Adler**
[1]:https://www.symmetrycounseling.com/psychologist-chicago/empathy-exercises-two-strategies-to-help-you-connect-with-others/

On 11 February 2020, WHO announced "COVID-19" as the name for the disease. I felt relieved and grateful at the moment I learned of the official name of the disease. Wuhan finally got rid of the "Virus" in its name, and it was because of the power of empathy that we do not name any disease by the region it happened. The power of empathy made me feel like being hugged by the wind with a pleasant warmth in spring. It is nice to feel that there are some one cares about our feelings and are trying to protect the feelings in multiple ways and even in those tiny details. By experiencing the hurt caused by the absence of empathy and warmth came with the others' caring, I learned the importance of empathy. To keep the importance of empathy in mind, I should always take some time to think in ways others would think before trying to make any judgement to others from different perspectives.
