---
path: "/forain-zhang"
date: "2020-07-10"
title: "Social Connection While Social Distancing"
author: "Forain Zhang"
hometown: "Nanjing, Jiangsu, China"
---
I still remember that morning was sunny and warm, with the birds singing on the trees; grasses were coming out of the soil and flowers offered their fragrances to people. I got myself a cup of coffee to help me focus on studying for my final exam, my phone started vibrating. “Buzz… Buzz...” I wondered what was happening. Emails and messages were popping up all at once. I felt my heart pound. I had this feeling that something was not right. It was unusual for me to receive so many notifications all at once. Nervously, I immediately checked my notifications, and read an email, **“Winter quarter in-person classes are converted into online recorded courses and final exams will be offered remotely”**. I stared at my phone with shock. My fingers were trembling. I did not know how to react. This was the first time that school was cancelled. As a fierce infectious disease, COVID-19 can be slowed down by conducting social-distancing. The university considered converting all offline courses to online courses due to the consideration of faculties’ safety. Then, the next thing I saw was a news article with the heading, “Los Angeles County orders the closure of bars, gyms, and entertainment centers, and restricts restaurants to just take-out or delivery service”. I was terrified. I have never experienced anything similar to this. I had a feeling of sadness for not having any in person classes. That was the day we were forced to say goodbye to our friends, classmates, and professors. We were forced to embrace social distancing. Suddenly, home is the only place that we can go, which means we are forced to lose connections with others. **I started to think about the importance of social connection.** 
	
I frantically logged into GauchoSpace, hoping to gain more information on how classes and final exams will be arranged according to the virus. I clicked into the discussion forum, and saw that many students were already posting questions on the forum. I have never seen so many posts and questions. Professors were also constantly updating and posting announcements to reassure students on how classes and final exams will be administered. Seeing that most students, like me, were panicking made me feel that I was not the only one facing this challenge. It calmed me a little bit as I know that students and professors were also trying their best to cope with this sudden change. However, deep inside my heart, I felt really insecure as this was the first time that we will be taking lectures on Zoom and doing a timed and proctored final exam on our laptops. I was really worried as there was so much uncertainty and changes that we all need to adapt in such a short period of time. What if my signal does not go well when I am having online exams? What if  I miss my online courses and lose participation points? What if I cannot follow the pace to study? I have so many questions, but I believe that all of us have to try our best in coping with COVID-19. “When everything is fluid, nothing can be known with any certainty/ Hold your own/ Hold it till you feel it there.” As [Tempest]( https://gauchospace.ucsb.edu/courses/mod/page/view.php?id=3959789) states in the song, called “Hold You Own”, nothing can be known with certainty, especially during COVID-19, where we are all under such drastic measures. There is no time for selfishness, we just have to keep trying and cooperating. During times of uncertainty, we just hold on, and try our best to keep doing what we can do. One day, it will pass. 

However, the first week of being forced to stay at home alone was torturing, which is as boring as what I expected previously. With all this sudden change, I felt empty and lost. I missed my family and friends. **I miss being able to interact with people.** Knowing that I cannot go anywhere else, I was unmotivated to study, and stayed in bed most of the time. Research has shown that “the impact of social isolation and loneliness on longevity equals that of smoking 15 cigarettes a day and exceeds the risks associated with obesity, excessive alcohol consumption and lack of exercise” [Tate][1]. Which is to say, social distancing during COVID-19 may lead to loneliness which can lead to physical and emotional harm due to inadequate social contact and support. With so much uncertainty and unpredictability of COVID-19, along with the terrifying increase of confirmed cases each day, it was indeed really hard for me to continue to study nor to stay positive. 

All I would do was laying on my bed, search for snacks, watch Youtube, and scroll through Facebook, Instagram, Snapchat. Then, I would repeat again. Even though I have tons of homework to finish, it seems like that I already lose all my power to study. **However, something has changed.** I was finding myself a snack while watching Youtube, and I got a text from my friend. “Hey! Are you free to Facetime? I miss you.” I read that text with joy. I was immediately delighted as I felt that there was someone who still cared about me and wanted to connect with me despite staying at home. I replied, “YES PLEASE!”, and within ten seconds, my phone started ringing. I picked up the call with excitement and told my friend how depressed I was before receiving her text. I stared at her face for a few minutes---her eyes are crowded with tears, throat with a lump, her mouth opening slightly to be ready to say something to me. We had a long conversation. It had been a long time since I spent so much time chatting whole heartedly and I ended the call feeling loved, connected, and replenished with energy. 

I smiled as I ended the call saying that “Let’s Facetime more often”. Deep in my heart, I was really grateful to have a friend like her. After the Facetime call with my friend, I realized the importance of social support, and more importantly, to spare out time bonding with our loved ones. Sparing out time to bond with our loved ones does not require a lot of time. Quality over quantity. Spending time videoconferencing replicates direct contact as we get to see each other. It was what we needed most during this time. Showing an act of love is not as hard as we all imagined. Even a five minute call can change how someone is feeling that day. From that call onwards, I told myself that during this time of social isolation, I have so much time at home that I should really make an effort in contacting my friends and family, and maintaining a close connection with them, especially during this time when most of us require love and support. Perhaps, COVID-19 has been a valuable reminder of what all of us were missing. As Jane Brody expresses in the article, called “[Take Steps to Counter the Loneliness of Social Distancing][2],” people nowadays care more about reputation and wealth and ignore that friendship is more important than those things. **COVID-19 has reminded me that physical distance does not mean social distance as we can now easily reach others through social media platforms and that short phone calls can also make an impact on someone who might be feeling anxious or stressed under the pandemic.**

To be honest, despite how COVID-19 seems extremely *uncontrollable and scary*, it provided me with the opportunity to consider the value of creating and maintaining meaningful connections with my friends and family. Before COVID-19, I definitely took face-to-face gatherings for granted. With social media so convenient nowadays, face-to-face relationships were weakened by electronics before social isolation as we were constantly distracted by our phones when meeting up with friends and family. But during this time of social isolation, the only place that we can go is our home, which gives us a chance to re-think the real purpose of technology, which is to enhance communication and connection rather than weaken relationships. At the end of the day, **learning how to maintain human connections is critically important.**

[1]: www.webmd.com/balance/news/20180504/loneliness-rivals-obesity-smoking-as-health-risk.
[2]: www.nytimes.com/2020/03/23/well/family/coronavirus-loneliness-isolation-social-distanc ng-elderly.html.
