---
path: "/amelia-liang"
date: "2020-07-10"
title: "I Want to Go Home"
author: "Amelia Liang"
hometown: "Haidian, Beijing, China"
---
<p>I never thought it would be so difficult to go home one day. I have been studying in the U.S. for four years, and I go home every summer. Coming home is an easy thing for me, and all I need to do is to book a flight ticket and pack stuff. However, due to COVID-19, China, my home country, started to cut international flights to prevent imported coronavirus cases. The new policy required every airline company to keep only one international flight per week which led to a large number of ticket cancellations and the price of the remaining tickets soared. As a result, millions of international students were unable to go home. This is the most difficult time I have ever had, but thanks to my best friend for supporting me to get through this time. The coronavirus teaches me a valuable lesson that a meaningful relationship could give me strong emotional support to go through all the difficulties.</p> 

<p>I went home last winter break to celebrate the Chinese New Year with my family. At the time I came back to America, everything was fine. There was no coronavirus, no social distancing, and no masks. I still remembered the day after midterms, we went for a walk along the beach in the evening. The evening of March 8th was relaxing and peaceful, with the moist sea wind; the stars were twinkling occasionally and the sky was dark blue, and I knew spring was coming. Spring is supposed to be a season of hope. During the warmth of spring, everything comes back to life. However, the spring of 2020 was destined to be a cruel one. As the coronavirus started to spread around America, there was an increasing number of confirmed cases. All universities abruptly suspended in-person instructions and moved to remote learning. After we heard about this news, many of my friends decided to go back to China because they believed coming home was safer than staying here. More and more people have left, and the dorm is no longer as lively as it used to be. The building is so quiet now that even a pin dropped on the ground can be heard. However, I decided to stay here. Visa limitations topped my lists of concerns because if we leave the country for more than five months, I will risk losing my Visa. Another concern was the online classes; at that time, we were not sure whether our lessons are live or recorded. If I come home, I need to overcome the 15 hours time difference between China and California. I was also worried about the risk of being infected during the flight. Therefore, I decided to stay, but I never thought that I lost my last chance to go home.</p> 

<p>
    As the situation in the U.S. got worse and worse, my parents and I believed it would be better to come home, so they bought me a ticket. I have kept a close eye on my flight information because a lot of my friends’ tickets got canceled. The phone screen flashed, and my heart started beating faster. Just one glance, I saw a few words: “Sorry to inform you that your flight was canceled due to the coronavirus…” I felt that my world shattered into pieces on the floor. My hands were sweaty and my brain was blank. At the moment, the spacious room has become so small that I can hardly breathe. It seemed like the air around me was condensing and squeezed towards me slowly. The air freezed. My pen dropped, hitting on my feet. The room was dark and quiet. I sit silently. Thinking that I might not be able to go home for the whole summer, I felt like I am surrounded by **darkness** even though the lights are on. My roommate and I have been sitting in front of the computer the whole day trying to find available tickets. My finger kept tying on the keyboard, switching from one website to another website. The sound of the tapping was like the sound of a drum beating on my heart. My heart was beating so fast that I felt it would jump out of my chest in the next second. The numbers on the screen represented my hope of coming home. However, all the tickets in June were sold out or canceled. Coming home was supposed to be a normal and easy thing, but it became extremely hard during the coronavirus. The constant stream of bad news made me more anxious and irritable just like Sophia Dembling who also suffered from the “anxiety produced by the endless feed of bad news” and decided to reduce the use of social media (Dembling). However, I couldn't help myself from checking the fight information. I began to pace back and forth, stomping my feet impatiently in my room. According to studies, people who practice social distancing have a high chance of experiencing psychological distress and disorder such as depression, stress, anxiety, low mood, and frustration, so I think this may explain why I feel so nervous and anxious (Brooks et al.). All of my negative emotions were amplified by COVID-19 which only made things worse.
</p>

<p>
    I thought I was unlucky when I received the news that my ticket was canceled, but at the same time, I also thought I am the luckiest person because I have my friend with me in this difficult time. She is so positive that even though her tickets got canceled three times, she could still joke about it. She said the possibility of getting a ticket to go home is the same as winning the lottery, so those who haven’t had their tickets canceled should go buy the lottery. My roommate who is also my best friend kept giving me confidence that we will be home eventually. Her optimistic mood infected me, so I became less stressed and frustrated. Every time I gazed at her face--her big bright smile, eyes narrowed slightly, her dimples appearing faintly on her face made me feel calm and secure. As she said, at least we have each other, and we have adequate food and protective equipment such as masks, gloves, and alcohol spray. Even if we have to stay here for another three months, we are going to be fine except a little boring. Compared with those who lost their lives and those who lost their loved ones due to COVID-19, boredom is nothing. Since I can’t go home, being with a few friends is my version of being with family. My life now is completely different compared to before. I believe everyone will have the same feelings as I do. In these days of social distancing, I have experienced almost all of the negative feelings, especially when I knew the ticket got canceled. However, we need to learn to comfort ourselves. Otherwise, we will be overwhelmed by these negative emotions. Trying to focus on things you can do and accept the thing you can’t change. I really appreciate the emotional support my friend gave to me. She taught me how to accept what happened with a smile instead of tears. I can’t imagine how I can get through this period of time without her. In these days of COVID-19, we learned to cook together, take care of each other, support each other, and more importantly, we became each other’s hope. The coronavirus made me realize that a meaningful connection with other people can make us stronger (Brody).
</p> 

>Everything will be okay in the end. If it's not okay, it's not the end.
>
>-John Lennon

<p>
    When I was writing this final draft, I glanced out of the window, and I saw many colorful flowers outside were blooming profusely, a group of kids just rode by, and the sunshine coming in through the gap of the blinds is **warm and soft**. I hope when the coronavirus is over, I can go home to see the people I miss, watch all the movies I missed, or do nothing but walk along the street without wearing a mask. 
</p>
