---
path: "/maureen-xiao"
date: "2020-07-10"
title: "Experiencing COVID-19"
author: "Maureen Xiao"
hometown: "Shenzhen, China"
---

“When everything is fluid, nothing can be known with any certainty. Hold your own” (Tempest). The lyric keeps going on in my mind after I heard it on Youtube. It touches the deepest of my heart, especially in my current life. COVID-19 pandemic broke out with no indications, causing everything to change. Schools closed for the sake of social distancing; internships opportunities were canceled; international students difficultly spent more than twenty hours to fly back home. Life’s stableness collapsed and replaced by uncertainty. I planed to go home, but my flight ticket got canceled twice. No one was certain about whether a plane can be take off as scheduled. Afraid experiencing the feelings of crushed expectation, I refused to buy more tickets, which potentially got cancel and chose to stay in the dorm for the rest of my Spring quarter. Recalling days in these three months, I did not regret deciding to stay. On the contrary, after these three unusual months, I appreciate the uncertainty that brings me realizing I should always accept change in life instead of complaining about it.  

The alarm was ringing, the wind blowing, I suddenly woke up to stop the noisy sound. It was Monday again. The significant number on my phone reminded me that it was already ten o’clock. Rolling myself around in bed, I did not want to leave my comfortable bed. Many might wonder why I can lie in bed on a weekday?; do I need to go to school? Yes, but not exactly, my answer is. I am currently at an unexpected time—school shifts to online structure following the guide of social distancing. While I still take classes everyday, I am not required to show up at the lectures meet time. Since they are all pre-recorded, I can watch them at any time. It was at ten o’clock. I had to get up and started to review for Econ 3A midterm, which would be posted this afternoon. I opened the curtain, the nature scenario appearing in my eye. The green mountain extended to far away, and I could not see the end. Seldom clouds floating in the blue sky, the sun emitted warmness clinging around me, bringing me a good mood. Standing in front of the window on eight floors, I could hardly see anyone outside walking in the street where students gather to play soccer or do outdoor exercises usually. Life since the outbreak of COVID-19 changed dramatically. 

It was only eleven o’clock when I leave for lunch. Eating lunch was much more inconvenient and time-consuming compared to eating in traditional dining commons. I took off my pajama and changed to a T-shirt, put on a long black jacket that covered all parts of my body, wore socks, and ensured no exposure to my skin. The last and most crucial column in my to-do list was wearing a mask. I carefully covered myself with a surgical mask, adjusted my glasses to a comfortable position, lifted the empty paper bag, and finally stepped out of my room. The preparation of picking up meals was slow and repetitive, but I had to follow every step to minimize the risk of infection. When I successfully arrived at the Linda Vista room, where we picked up lunch box, it was already 11:15. The scenario in front of the room shocked me that a long line had already existed surrounding the building. I could not imagine how many people were in front of me as I could not see the end. I stood in the line, the wind blowing heavily, and I clutched my ears. Each student stood six feet apart from others, I could not even talk with my friend as I could not hear her voice but only saw her mouth opened and closed again and again. When I eventually got into the destination, I figured out why the line moved slow. Staff cleaned the table every time a student picked up a lunch box, and a student could only come into the room when one left. 

When I eventually got my lunch and came back to my room, the first thing I do, surprisingly, was not enjoy my meal hurriedly but to check another to-do list sticking on my door. I firstly took off my jacket, changed to loungewear and slippers, then disinfected the paper bag with alcohol spray, and lastly, washing my hands while singing “Happy Birthday song” at the same time. I learned from the internet that singing a song ensured sufficient time used for washing hands so that the cleaning effect could be ensured. Singing a song became one of my interests to distract attention when washing hands. After checking all the boxes in my to-do list, I could sit down and eat my lunch. My phone unlocked for a new Wechat notification. I checked the message and noticed that the time was already twelve. I could not believe that I spent an hour to get lunch. Realizing that I had to repeat the whole one-hour process for dinner again, my head became heavier and I felt dizzy. Chewing my favorite mashes potato, I shockingly discovered that I lost my sense of taste. Admittedly, I refuse the sophisticated process of dinning service, hate the early work before meals, pity for the time wasted, but I have no choice. I cannot change the circumstance; I could not be indifferent to my health and be forgotten about my responsibility to the health of people around me. The only thing I can do is to adjust my mindset to accept the environment. 

When I accepting reality, life turns out to be more satisfying. My opinion altered when I missed lunch the other day because lunchtime passed when I indulged in watching a TV series called “How to Get Away from Murder.” I realized that the notion of spending time in doing meaningful things such as studying and exercising was only my glory excuse. If time is not spent in waiting, it will be wasted on entertainment. My mom always teaches me that things happen for reasons. I comprehended that the waiting time was vital and could be interesting if I thought in another way. Disinfecting clothes and bag ensured me not staying motionless all-day. Waiting in line, I found it interesting to explore the menu. Whether I chose Chinese dish -- beef with broccoli or having a traditional American cheeseburger? What were the calories of the double chocolate brownie? Do I had have to eat salad for fiber? Struggling with these questions, I could endurable the long waiting time. Breathing the wet salty air, sniffing the pleasant smell of a hundred flowers in the air, surrounded by background noise, I stretched out arms, feeling that I am still alive. Sometimes a sense of loneliness covers me like a cold mist; depression swamped me with its crushing invasion. Standing in line, I appreciated the opportunity of integrating into the collective. 

In her article “Take Steps to Counter the Loneliness of Social Distancing,” Jane Brody states that “once this viral crisis is over, my most cherished hope is that we not forget the lessons we learned during this time.” I learned a lesson today, on a random school day in the Spring quarter of 2020. I remember the precise moment, waiting in a long line apart from the mass, glancing at the lunch menu on my phone. Adjusting the mindset to accept changes, I figured out, is what we should do in uncertainty. Looking back from now, I realize that I should adjust myself to re-accommodate the gregarious life when the regular quarter resumes, to adapt the companionship with family and friends. 


Works Cited 

Brody, Jane. “Take Steps to Counter the Loneliness of Social Distancing.” GauchoSpace page.  Accessed 10 Apr 2020. 
Tempest, Kate. “Hold Your Own.” GauchoSpace page. Accessed 11 May 2020.