---
path: "/max-liang"
date: "2020-07-10"
title: "Finding New Meaning in Silence"
author: "Max Liang"
hometown: "Foshan, Guangdong, China"
---
The scorching mid-afternoon sun strikes heavily on the blank pavement. The trills of cicadas banging my ear relentlessly. It takes me a while to realize summer is approaching. I miss the summer when we were being so energetic and able to go under the sun of June, sweating with joy and laughter and running along the beach; waves were clapping with the shiny slippery rock to celebrate youth and happiness. Through all these restless summer nights, we were gathered around a table of beer. The flashing neon light shined on those amusing faces who were busy telling those intriguing stories in the past. Countless love and friendship were found in those unforgettable nights. However, no matter how dramatic the symphony is going on in our head, we have to face the new norm, a narrow silence path to self-isolation.

How do people respond to silence? When they are being by themselves, what would they do? The question goes back and forth in my head while I lean drowsily against the back of the chair in a darkened empty room. As I listen closely, there is actually a bunch of sound going on—The periodical low-running sound of a refrigerator, the occasional banging noise from the trucks rushing on the road, echoing alarm from the ambulance, a sharp chirping of birds.  Before any social distancing has taken place, I never know these unnoticeable sounds in the background can be so loud, reiterate, and meaningless. Life under quarantine can be boring and repetitive just like the background sound can be. On one hand, boredom, loneliness, and all sorts of sadness quietly infect my body. While on the other hand, I was crawling in a dark path of uncertainty for a new meaning.  

Normally, I am not a person that is fond of playing music, but self-quarantine has pushed the first domino for me to go deeper into the field of music. A few weeks ago, I ordered a violin in order to kill time. I didn’t order it with a great sense of expectation and hope, but more like a curious kid throwing a tiny rock in the lake to see what will happen. This tiny bit of passion went away by the time it had arrived, I coldly put it aside in the corner of the room. Not until recently, as I reached the limit to tolerate the silence of the room which started making the air heavier and harder to breathe in, I turned back to the dusty package, hoping for a change. I sliced open the gloomy yellow rectangular box with a sharp knife without much effort. When I was about to flip the cover open, a deep scent of wooden paint that has long been contained in the box has leaked through the tiny gap of opening. Maybe just like I am waiting for something to break my everyday boredom, the violin is also waiting for someone to release it too. I unraveled the box further. The violin is delicate. From the scarce light that slipped through the narrow gap of the window blinds, I could see its brown wooden frame sparkle with elegancy. I grabbed its top lightly and back to my seat. I held on to the violin with slight hesitation. I haven’t played the violin since primary school. Back then, sitting still to play music wasn’t any of my favorite. I was being forced to learn. But now, I can say I have a strong motivation to play this instrument. After tuning the sound and finding some simple music sheets on the internet, I was ready to play. Pressing firmly on the A string, and I unfamiliarly move the bow lightly on the violin string. Immediately, the violin responds to me with a high pitch that breaks the silence of the room. As I go on with the sheet music, the room has come alive. The flow of music did not sound perfect, with occasional pulses. I was struggling to find the right position for some notes, but it was this process of searching and learning which makes it more meaningful than simply playing. I didn’t take too long to comprehend a song. When I finished playing one song, the feelings that followed were highly rewarding; the aftershock of the violin spread warmth and coziness in my whole body. I was deeply indulged in this feeling. Since I got my hands on the violin, my room has never been quiet.

In addition to playing the violin, singing also becomes my companion in the fight against silence. Speaking of singing, it reminds me of my older sister—her vivid face inflated with joys, shoulder stretched wide, her bright eyes shined with kindness and confidence. When I was little, about half of the height I am now, I was a younger brother who always sticks to and looks up to his older sister. My sister has an amusing voice. Whenever she sang, it followed with applause.  In contrast, I love to sing, but I am not a good singer. I was never confident about singing. People would expect the ones around the role model would be as good as the role model. So, I never tried. I was afraid. Never giving my best in singing. Even as I walked out the shadow of people’s expectations when I grew up, deep down inside I still refrained to sing. I could still feel the shaky voice when I sang. I guess I never truly walked out of the shadow. But since the start of the quarantine, my surroundings have become much quieter, then I started to lose track of people’s expectations. I still remember clearly the time when I was making my first attempt to sing during the quarantine. When I just about to sing, I close my eyes. Then, I was covered in complete darkness, darkness without any audience. I could feel my heart beating fiercely. I caught my breath heavily, then I raised my voice to sing. I tried to focus more on my voice, not the surrounding attention. The voice echoed through the empty room, and it broke the “silence” I had been hiding. It felt amazing. I was able to express my emotion through my voice and hear it right away; it was like I was facing a mirror and able to discover the details of myself that I had never noticed before. The excitement went unstoppable. From one song to another song, no matter if it is happy or sad, fast or slow, I can sing whatever I like, whenever I want. It was a feeling that I never get tired of.

Come to think about that, it is the silence that makes me listen more closely to myself, without the expectation of my surroundings. It is the silence that pushes me to attempt something I wouldn’t have tried it otherwise. “When God closes a door, He opens a window.” Although the life-style I used to have is no longer possible, I was able to gain experience that I may never be able to have. At first, I was afraid of my life-style being changed, but isn’t life just a process of change? And wouldn’t it be nice if we can constantly find new meaning to adapt to the changes in life? 
