---
path: "/jingyan-xu"
date: "2020-07-10"
title: "A “Left-Behind” Chinese Student in America"
author: "Jingyan Xu"
hometown: "Guangzhou, Guangdong, China"
---
I have made hundreds of decisions, from choosing ice cream flavors to doing multiple choices on exams. Sometimes I am seized with a deep remorse after selecting certain options. The morning of March 20th, the end of the winter quarter, was damp and tranquil, with the raindrops pattering against the window endlessly; the trees were swaying violently in the high wind and the dark clouds were gathering simultaneously across the sky. Local students were busily packing up and waited for their parents to drive them home. Repeatedly carrying luggages from the eighth floor to the first floor seemed tedious, but their faces were full of smiles. I kept lying on the bed and gazing at the ceiling alone in the triple room, attempting to get rid of the loneliness and emptiness. I opened the curtain and anticipated a beam of light to shine through a chink to alleviate the air of profound depression, but I saw the sun slipped. A few flowers sighed, being provoked by the loss of sunlight. The entire UCSB was sunk into gloom. I wondered to myself, “Will I regret choosing to stay in America during the outbreak of coronavirus pandemic?” It’s March 30th. I regretted it, and that became the catalyst of my “nightmare.” However, the “nightmare” reminded me that regret should not be the stumbling block to progress and the motive that someone continues to blame themselves.


It’s March 30th. As usual, the alarm disturbed me using its sharp annoying sound. I habitually searched for the phone to turn off the alarm in a bad mood. A message popped up: China will reduce the number of international flights from March 29th; one flight is permitted per week per domestic airline to grant substantially less people the entry to China. What? I rubbed the remaining sleepiness out of my heavy eyelids and rapidly browsed through the news, word by word. Can I still go home in June? I was not sure. **Trembling**, I jumped out of the bed, following that is a throbbing headache as if several spiny plants were rolling inside. Bearing the sudden headache, I opened the official website of Chinese airlines: Los Angeles to Guangzhou, ¥36301; San Francisco to Shanghai, ¥33640; New York to Xiamen, ¥39401. Do I see the prices incorrectly? Yesterday, the prices were four-digit numbers; after 7 hours of sleep, they shifted to five-digit… ¥35000, equalizing the room and board fee per quarter at UCSB, was not a small amount for me. I sighed, frowned, and heard some part of me saying that “if you were to return to China at the end of the winter quarter, you will not increase the unnecessary burden on your family budget.” 


Right. I would save roughly ¥20000 by returning to China on March 20th. Since the first patient with coronavirus pandemic was confirmed in China, my parents’ logistics company has suffered from less profits and loss of customers. Their company majors in domestic transport, but due to the limitations placed on the use of transportations, they are forced to reduce the amount of commodities they could transport per day. [Brooks et al.][1] mentions that financial loss “created serious socio-economic distress and was found to be a risk factor for symptoms of psychological disorders.” I had been concerned that they would experience financial and psychological hardships. At this critical juncture, on the one hand I was powerless to help them, and on the other I even increased their financial burden by choosing to stay in America. I could not stop questioning why I did not choose to return home in early March. Afraid of the failure of internet connection? UCSB had a VPN to fix that. Time Gap? All professors had pre-recorded their lectures for students to freely allocate their time. Exposure to Coronavirus? The risk of being infected seemed increased over time but not decreased. All the problems I had considered that persuaded me of not returning to China had been resolved. March 30th, the first day of instruction, was supposed to be a transition from relaxation to a relatively tense learning status. However, my mind was occupied by remorse as it was kept in a cage without ventilation. I lost the motivation to study that I previously had. As I thought about these, a stream of **tears** trickled down my cheeks, and fell to my knees. 
	

I was reminded of Mia, one of those fortunate ones who had successfully returned to China before March 29th. It was afternoon that our chancellor sent us an email saying that remote learning would be extended to the end of the spring quarter. We were in the library reviewing for the finals. Abruptly, I heard several unmuted computers and phones sounded simultaneously that alerted you to incoming email. It must be an email from Chancellor Yang. I opened the inbox and saw several bold words: remote learning. Mia instantly searched for the flight tickets, purchased one using ¥15580, and said she could not endure loneliness in America. “Hey, why don’t you purchase the ticket?” She was puzzled. I stood firm on the side of choosing not to return to China and replied, “¥15580 seems a bit expensive for me, I expect the prices to be much lower in June.” I was wrong. When I struggled with the exorbitant prices of airline tickets and cried due to remorse, she had been in quarantine at home, being able to spend time with her family. “If I were to return home in March, I must be in a world full of warmth.” I leaned against the wall, whispering. As [Adhikari][2] claims, “I was upset about not being able to hug my parents, be around them, and talk to them all the time,” and that’s exactly what I felt. I was separated from them by the Pacific Ocean, being uncertain whether I could cross the ocean in June. If I cannot, I must pay more to rent houses for summer, continue to endure loneliness, and suffer from inadequate supplies. Being surrounded by these random thoughts, I kept self-criticizing, feeling myself in a bottomless abyss - I desired to see the outside world, but there were no tools to help me to climb up.


A video call interrupted my train of thoughts. It’s my mum. “Hey, how’s your days going,” she asked softly, “I’m so concerned that you are there alone.” “I,” I burst into racking sobs, “am good.” “What happened?” “Mum, the prices of the airline ticket have increased substantially. I know that it was me insisting to stay here. I felt so bad that situations had evolved in these unexpected directions. It’s completely my fault…” I dared not see her face on the screen since I was afraid of the disappointment pouring out from her eyes, so I put the phone aside and tried to restrain my sobs. We both silent for a few seconds. Then she said, “Will your remorse change anything? If not, then you should not spend time on these unnecessary self-judgement.” Her words reminded me that since the moment I knew how the decision of staying in America resulted in a higher cost both psychologically and financially, I had been trapped by all these random thoughts. I spent all day listening to the pouring rain, sitting on the hard chair, and cried for what I chose. These behaviors, however, could not help me to solve any problems. Thus, instead of being stranded in pain and doing nothing, I decided to find out whether there were other flights available that had lower cost.


I opened Weibo, an app commonly used in China, similar to Twitter, to search for how others who faced the similar plight dealt with the unexpected boost of the airline ticket prices. Finally, I found one approach: starting from Los Angeles to San Francisco, San Francisco to Tokyo, Tokyo to Kuala Lumpur, Kuala Lumpur to Shanghai. The whole trip lasted for roughly 50 hours and cost ¥16000. It sounded horrible to stop three times, but I had no time for hesitation since almost all airlines in China bid up the prices to take advantage of the shortage of the tickets. At the second I successfully purchased the ticket, I felt hundreds of rocks that previously placed on my shoulders were rolling away. My trembling hands calmed down and started to follow my instructions as usual. It’s 8 p.m.. I opened the first lecture of Dance 45, “Hey students. Welcome to Dance 45 for Spring 2020.” My spring quarter officially began at that moment.


March 30th was dramatic. Throughout that day, I realize that being in constant remorse will block a person from moving forward. While talking about the decision I had made, I use past tense, implying that there are no more changes that can be made. What I should keep in mind is that the present is the key. That is, when I already knew staying in America would result in more financial burden on my family, I should start to find other approaches to save as much money as possible, instead of being stranded in deep remorse, which will only make things worse. If the same plight occurs to me again, I will have the confidence to handle it.


[1]: https://www.thelancet.com/pdfs/journals/lancet/PIIS0140-6736(20)30460-8.pdf
[2]: http://cher.trincoll.edu/far-from-home-during-covid/
