---
path: "/carina-cao"
date: "2020-07-05"
title: "Set Foot on Homeland During COVID"
author: "Carina Cao"
hometown: "Wuxi, Jiangsu, China"
---

<p>It was not the first time I took an international flight; also, it was not the first time I flew alone; however, it was the scariest international air travel I had ever experienced in my life. Overlooking the Pacific Ocean on the airplane, **I could see nothing but the bottomless darkness, which deepened the darkness of my mood.** “I just coughed, am I ok?” “Would I get infected on my way home?” “Is the passenger next to me an asymptomatic carrier of coronavirus?” With such concerns occupying each nook and cranny of my mind, I subconsciously adjusted my safety glasses and tightened my protection suit. Resisting the temptation of the fragrant airline food, I silently prayed that this airplane could safely touch down at Shanghai Pudong International Airport as soon as possible. As an international student, I went through a tough time for sure: COVID - 19 created unprecedented stress in my life, especially having to take this flight back to China in the midst of the pandemic.</p>

<p>“Good evening, passengers. This is your captain speaking. Our airplane has landed in Shanghai ...” The captain’s announcement cheered up most passengers, but some of us were still in a trance. Given that I was high-strung in the past twenty hours, everything looked rather grey and drab. Frankly speaking, I had not completely convinced myself that I had returned to my homeland until the moment I heard everyone around me speaking Mandarin after I deplaned. **Those familiar accents were like the warm winter sunshine, sweeping away the haze over my heart and lightening up my world.**</p>

<p>In a while, all passengers from my flight moved to the terminal building to take the health examination under the guidance of officials. I felt a sudden chill as I stepped into that building. The building was full of passengers as usual, but an unusual atmosphere permeated the place that day. I could not tell what exactly that atmosphere was, but I supposed it was partially because everyone was worried about the possibility of infection, as was I. Such a condition reminded me of an article I read before in which the author states that one striking psychological impact along with such a pandemic of COVID - 19 is fear of infection ([Brooks et al.][1]). The hasty steps of the staff even aggravated such fear.</p>

<p>When I was queuing to take the health examination and fill out the related forms, I made a phone call with my parents. It was a little bit sad to see many travelers being with their families and friends while I was alone, but I knew that my parents had kept worrying about my safety day and night since the outbreak of coronavirus in the US. “How long have you been at the airport? Do you feel well? Is everything ok?” My mom threw out three questions before I could say a word. **As I heard my mom’s voice, I felt like the air around me seemed to turn humid; otherwise, those plain words must be imbued with magical power, for they did get my nose sore and bring tears to my eyes. Thanks to the howling wind, my imperceptible sobs did not draw anyone’s attention.** To relieve the tension of my parents, I briefly told them that I was fine and everything went smoothly, and then hung up the phone. Without the special case of coronavirus, I would never realize how strong my attachment to my parents is.</p>

<p>Another relationship that I realized is essential to me came in the form of a FaceTime call. Several minutes after the talk with my parents, I received a FaceTime invitation from Sabrina, my best friend in high school. I mentioned my flight information when we chatted via Wechat the day before, but it was a big surprise that she called me immediately after my aircraft touched down. I was deeply touched. Even though she studies in Hong Kong while I study in the US, Sabrina never forgets any tiny thing about me. It is my great pleasure to have such a friend in my life. I accepted Sabrina’s invitation right away; within my expectation, she simply called to check whether I had arrived in Shanghai safely. **The evening of March 22nd was formidably chilly, even in the airport, with the piercing cold of early Spring, but a simple question from Sabrina, “How does everything go?” became the source of warmth for me.** I was not alone at the airport; I had my friend with me. At that moment, I could not nod more at one sentence in Jane E. Brody’s article, [“Take Steps to Counter the Loneliness of Social Distancing,”][2] “The disease reminds us of the importance of connections with distant friends.” The FaceTime call with Sabrina let me recall the time we spent together in high school, which effectively relieved my anxiety. We talked for three hours until I came to the front of the health examination desk.</p>

> The disease reminds us of the importance of connections with distant friends.
>
>-**Jane E. Brody**

<p>The health examination did not take me much time, but I felt exhausted from standing for such a long time with three heavy bags. Without any exaggeration, I could feel every single muscle of my leg twitch. After picking up my luggage, I slowly moved with the crowds to the station where I could take a bus to my city, Wuxi. To effectively suppress the spread of the virus, all private cars were forbidden at the airport. It was another three hours of waiting, but the chatter and laughter of people lingered in my ears. **The wind from our homeland smoothly blew away the depression and anxiety in people’s minds and took the chill off the airport.** Especially at the moment when I saw a board with words like “Jiangsu Province --- Welcome Home” on it, I felt some nameless emotions flowing in my chest. There had to be one moment that the rest of the world was all black and white, while the only colorful item in my world was that board.</p>

<p>Ultimately, I got on a bus traveling to my home city seven hours after I got off the airplane. It was another boring trip for sure. However, with my head leaning against the window of the bus, I felt satisfied and sweet when reviewing some moments I had experienced during this special trip. **When I looked outside the window, the stars blinked in transparent clarity. Streetlights shined, lightening the very dark corner of my heart. The air on the bus seemed to be fresh and warm as well.** Later, I posted one short sentence on all my social media platforms, “the air of my homeland is sweet.” It was my most authentic feeling at that moment; I never felt such a strong attachment to my country and my people here. I suppose such an attachment has started to grow since the moment I set my foot on my homeland during COVID - 19.</p>

<p>This long stay at Shanghai Pudong International Airport during the pandemic gave me some insights that I never had before: no matter how many wonderful places I have traveled over the world, the only place that would make me feel secured and settled is my hometown; no matter how many nice people I have interacted with, the only people that would always support me are my parents and friends; no matter how tough the time we are enduring is, such as the pandemic of COVID - 19, there should always be some beautiful aspects we can find among the suffering. With no doubt, my COVID - 19 experience is one of the most precious lessons in my life; it shows me the implication of home and relationships during a hard time.</p>


[1]: https://gauchospace.ucsb.edu/courses/mod/page/view.php?id=3677173
[2]: https://gauchospace.ucsb.edu/courses/mod/page/view.php?id=3670278