---
path: "/rinchi-lin"
date: "2020-07-10"
title: "A Letter of Apology"
author: "Rinchi Lin"
hometown: "Tianjin, China"
---

"There is no one righteous, not even one.” “If we say we have no sin, we deceive ourselves, and the truth is not in us” ([The English Standard Version Bible, Rom. 3.2][1]). Who’s the sinner should take responsibility for this global pandemic, Covid-19, me as a **Chinese** or you as a **non-Chinese**? Perhaps, either of us is victims, and nature is the murder itself; Perhaps, both of us are the criminal for what you and I have done to the nature it returns “gift” back to us by putting our life at stake. I am not a asge nor a monk, who practices abstinence is humble, modest, and generous, dedicating his life to serve all living things,
but an **unworthy, narrow -mind, and an evil** ordinary person like you, who grudge
feelings like detest, resentment, and indignation sometimes. Meanwhile, I am a
dedicated patriot and nationalism but never xenophobic, nor the contagious flu
H1N1 will change my view of Americans. Thus, I somehow empathize and comprehend
with your detest resentment and indignation toward my race. While the pandemic provokes
many physiological impacts, we as the exotic race of the Chinese miserably endure constantly panic in our daily life for what we should not undertake any obligations of.

##My Own Experience
During the seven years I have been lived in the United States, I have always kept a low profile as a foreigner, treating people with righteous morality even for vagrants, not for I am a weak and cowardly person, but for I believe respect is earned by offering respect, which stems and being cultivated from my high school experience. I learned the importance of studying peoples’ faces as a new cadet who is vulnerable and has known little about English during my first year in the military high school. While I could not understand the meaning of the word when I first came, I could easily interpret what they tried to convey by reading their emotional expression, agreed or disagreed, contemptuous or amicable, deceptive or genuine. When I have a conversation with others, I always peep at their eyes and faces as the mouse hiding from the view of the cat , observing their facial expression and seek to perceive if my word or phrase induce any uncomfortable or insulting illusion to others due to the cultural difference. 

Now, thanks to the Covid-19,  everyone has their mask covered, blanking out everyone’s face with only a pair of meaningless eyes exposed. It alters my perspective toward others, colorless and inhospitable. The way I view this town, this county, this state, and this nation are no longer peaceful and friendly, but more like chaos, where you will be exposed to dangers anywhere. Without being capable of detecting others’ subtle emotional changes on their face, I am blinded and lose the confidence in the relationship between me and others, fearing that discrimination and mistreatment will soon drop upon my head.

The Morning of May 18th was noisy and muggy, with the scorching heat of a full-summer day; cars were racing with time on the highway,dogs in the neighbor were relentlessly barking for nothing.  I awoke as the shining light leak through the broken screen hit on my face, and with a sudden stroke of reminding that I promise my girlfriend to grocery shopping today .I was unwilling to get up and cozily embraced the only **uncontainable** place where I can escape from my **unsubstantiated guilt** as a Chinese. A pressing ring call suddenly popped in the air and broke the tranquility, where I foreknew it was my dad. I pressed the green button with my reluctant finger and heart, for I knew he was garrulous and always proposed troublesome but fatherly concerned advice. Surprisingly, his tone turned soft this time. I could sense his apprehension and uneasiness about my safety rocketing through space and landing by my side, not only afraid of me being infected but also restless about this global pandemic will evoke irresistible racism, specifically toward Chinese. 

It was 10:30 am, my girlfriend woke up. I was eagerly hoping she would forget today’s agenda as much as I hoped getting an A for my linguistic class. I did not want to go to the grocery store quite frequently, for I was unwilling to endure others’ veiled attitude toward Asian population. Every time she asks me to go to the grocery store, my heartthrob beats tempestuously while fear and anxiety constantly haunt me over. However, the reality was cruel for the first thing she asked me was “When are we going to the grocery store ?” She looked at me and pouted her ruddy lips with her sparkling eyes soften. My hearts trembled, burying my unease, and told her, “Lets go right now.”

On my way to Costco, it was a noticeably short route, but my heart was nervous and trembling. I used to keep my window open, turn up my hip-hop music, and drive abruptly to show off my Vehicle’s sex exhaust coming from a beautiful V8 engine but not these days. I feared that I would be too conspicuous, and the hostile look from others would chop off the air and stab in my heart as if to say close your windows down young men for not having your Chinese virus infect me. I turned my head and glanced at my girlfriend. She sat there as usual, playing on her phone, through her eyes I could catch a sense of excitement, while I feel the sharp finger of evil pinch at my heart heavier and heavier as we get closer and closer to the store, and I gasp.

It was about 3 minutes, and we arrived at the parking lot. I look through the window, the sky is azure blue, birds lightheartedly fly in the air, and some erect on branches humming for joy. Nature has not affected,harmony and prosperity preserved, while my suffering is invisible to them. My girlfriend and I went off from the car, a view of a cluster of faced covered people, complying with the order of social distancing, gathered in the line came in sight. A couple just finished shopping came passing us. We made eye contact, and I was worryingly conjecturing the purpose of it, whether he stares at me deliberately or unconsciously because of my distinctive Asian pupil. I could not detect any feelings from their hollow eyes as their faces are covered by the mask. I used to be sensitive to other's expressions, but everything for me is **dark** now. Was he thinking I should not appear in this place thanks to my indirect crime upon this country? Should I simply listen to the recommendation from Emily Liu, who’s the associate director of employer relations at Emory University, that “Cover your face and don’t forget your sunglasses” to disguise my identity ([Emily][2]). I was so fearful of the xenophobia where I had read the news about president trump entitled Covid-19 with “Chinese Virus”, and how some people are ruthless to hurt an innocent Chinese kid that “ a 2-year-old and a 6-year-old were stabbed at a Texas Sam's Club because the alleged perpetrator thought, he told police, that the family was Chinese and spreading the disease”([Emily][2]).

On the way to the front door, time was gradually frozen, and I stumbled heavily. I kept my consciousness of the people surrounding me scrupulously for any potential adversity might occur, and intentionally looked away from others for I did not want to arouse any indignation or argument, and for I fear no one will stand on my side. I glanced aside at my girlfriend **again**, and I could sense her excitement as an unleashed horse running on the grass. The temperature was hot, I sweat with anxiety, and I sweat more for I realize that after I enter , I must encounter more and more faces with masks covered, and their undescriptive eyesight. I look straight at the entrance- a black hole; it is attractive for my living have to depend on it; it is dreadful for its complete darkness,which possesses so many unknowns that might hurt me and most importantly those who I love-my girlfriend..

The **6 minutes** from my home to the entrance of Costco was long and devastating. How many 6 minutes is in one day? How many 6 minutes is in one hour? How many **more** 6 minutes I have to bear with? I ask myself “Am I the sinner of this pandemic? ” If so, I sincerely  apologize to those who suffer from my crime,which articulate in the article “The Psychological Impact of Quarantine” as authors state that people who are self-quarantined “ were significantly more likely to report exhaustion, detachment from others, anxiety, irritability, insomnia, poor concentration, and indecisiveness”([The Psychological Impact of Quarantine][3]). For compensation, me and all my villainous accomplices - all Chinese who lives aboard- will endure any physiological torment it might take second by second, 6 minutes by minutes to seek the forgiveness of yours . **Will you forgive us?**

Works Cited

Brooks, Samantha K. Webster, Rebecca K. Smith, Louise E. Woodland, Lisa. Wessely, Simon. Greenberg, Neil. Rubin, Gideon James.“The Psychological Impact of Quarantine and How to Reduce It: Rapid Review of the Evidence.” The Lancet. Accessed 11 April 2020.
Emily Liu. “Covid-19 Has Inflamed Racism Against Asian-Americans. Here’s How to Fight Back.” CNN. Accessed 17 June 2020.
“The English Standard Version Bible.“ New York: Oxford University Press, 2009. Print.
[1]:https://www.biblegateway.com/passage/?search=Romans+3%3A10-12%2CPsalm+14%3A1-3%2CPsalm+53%3A1-3&version=ESV
[2]:https://www.cnn.com/2020/04/10/opinions/how-to-fight-bias-against-asian-americans-covid-19-liu/index.html
[3]:https://www.thelancet.com/journals/lancet/article/PIIS0140-6736(20)30460-8/fulltext