---
path: "/zhixin-liang"
date: "2020-07-10"
title: "Being a Storyteller of History"
author: "Zhixin Liang"
hometown: "Shenzhen, Guangdong Province, China"
---
Over the past few months, COVID-19 has brought adverse effects to the world. Currently, almost every activity is at a standstill, given that the measures put across by the World Health Organization involve social and physical distancing. According to the World Health Organization, most people infected with the COVID-19 virus will experience some level of illness depending on one's ability to recover. However, children and older people are more likely to experience a worse situation. Additionally, people have been encouraged to observe high sanitary conditions by washing hands whenever they come into contact with surfaces and using an alcohol-based hand sanitizer. The illness has no vaccine currently, and it produces symptoms similar to those of flu. However, the signs of the disease have an incubation period of 2 to 14 days after an individual has been exposed. I will discuss some of the experiences felt worldwide, such as panic buying storage of food and daily supplies, flight cancelation and, the introduction of online studies and disruption of schooling as a result of Coronavirus.

In the shopping stores, I noticed that people panicked and bought everything that they could get their hands on. Notably, toilet paper ran out due to people clearing shelves, fearing that there would be a total lockdown. Standing at Costco's front door, watching people rushing like wild animals, looking at their agitated appearances and frantic bodies. At the time, I felt and thought people were selfish, given that they were buying without thinking of others. It was ironic that after a few minutes of pausing, my body resumed faster than my mind when my roommate and I joined this panic buying. According to Nick Welsh, the Executive Editor of the Santa Barbara, he meditated whether the vice president would find a solution to the pandemic. Welsh indicated that he had visited the De la Vina Street Trader Joe's only to find most shelves empty. Later, Welsh learned that people bought almost everything making the store's sales surpass its previous records. One of the products he noticed that ran out at a high rate was toilet paper, making COVID-19 outdo frenzied shopping that takes place on other occasions such as the Super Bowl, Oscars, and Thanksgiving. Being part of this community, I understood and noticed that people were struggling and panicked about this war against viruses. Many of them were worried about food and daily supplies will be out of stock at the beginning of the pandemic.

Worldwide, people have suffered psychologically due to social distancing and being quarantined. For passengers who had a history of travel, they were asked to self-quarantine, while those who showed signs of the virus had to go to the nearest medical facility. Coronavirus has led to the cancellation of flights since most people who were to travel had to stay wherever they were to avoid the risk of spreading the virus or getting new infections. According to my personal experience, I have realized that COVID-19 has a significant impact on my life. I have bought three plane tickets, one of them is from United Airlines, where I ordered the flight from Los Angeles to Shanghai. However, United Airlines officials called me three weeks ago that the trip was canceled, and they had changed my ticket to San Francisco, and then I was notified once again that my ticket changed to New York. By now, I have not received any latest updates, so I believe that I will go to New York and back to China. My parents and I are worried about going back to China, and we are checking my flight status every day to ensure that my flight is not canceled. 

Having the possibility to fly back to China is the same as the possibility of winning the lottery. Many of my friends are also stressed out because of flight cancelation, and these situations bring us anxiety and uncertainty. Just a few days before, I experienced another impressive ticket purchase. It was the evening of May 26th, with the cats lying by my side; the windows were opened wide, and the wind was blowing. It was one of the most common days of my life, and I was ready to sleep. Suddenly, the cats began screaming, weeping my heart out. The night was dark and boisterous, foreshadowing my nightmare. It is a despairing and endless night on a cold, windy day in the spring of 2020. I remembered the moment that the news of reopening Hong Kong International airport was delivered, people were jubilating. However, I was unable to find an air ticket that can send me home. At that sudden, I felt like riding on a roller coaster, the moment that I reached the highest point, dropping without a pause. Finally, I decided to buy the ticket without hesitation as no one knows if Hong Kong Airport will open or not. 

Unfortunately, Hong Kong International Airport announced that passengers are not allowed to transfer to China’s mainland through Hong Kong. I heard my heart was breaking when I checked with the officials of the airport and finally accepted the fact. I have never experienced the feelings of hopelessness and loneliness ever in my life. Still, the possibility of staying in the United States until the start of the new school year pressed me mentally and psychologically. There are millions of Chinese students across the globe waiting for the flights, and not even them, their parents are also worried about their situations. Many tickets are selling for more than ten thousand dollars, but even so, no one ensures that we are able to go home. 

When it comes to educational institutions, a lot of governments across the globe have temporarily called for the closure of schools to combat the spread of coronavirus. According to the UNESCO website, the countrywide closure of schools has affected more than 70 percent of the world’s population. In contrast, several other nations have implemented localized closures affecting millions of students (Setiawan). However, UNESCO provides support to such countries to mitigate the immediate impact of school closures, especially for the disadvantaged and vulnerable communities. The move is meant to facilitate the continuity of education for each learner through remote learning. ([UNESCO et at.,2020][1]) In higher learning institutions, online studies have been introduced to ensure that students keep learning despite not going to class physically. On the bright side, research indicates that online education has risen because teaching has been taking place remotely and on digital platforms. UCSB also promotes the online study, where most professors uploaded lectures and materials on gauchospace for us to learn. I enjoy studying online. My schedule becomes more flexible, and I can listen to lectures based on my pace. Some argue that they can not contact professors immediately, but for all of my courses, professors provide different channels for students to discuss questions. Even though learning remotely is a brand new way for most students and faculties, it also provides us more freedom to choose courses and learn the materials.

Surprisingly, life has changed within a short period due to the measures put across to help curb coronavirus from flight cancellation to students stopping their school attendance. However, some positivity is caused by the fact that students are still learning despite their classes being done remotely. Since the virus was announced, my friends and I stopped visiting each other and hanging out. On the other hand, we stopped moving across the state to visit relatives due to fear of getting infected. Such changes had changed my perception of life, given that I have been restraining myself from doing what I used to do before the virus struck. My life has become boring since there is not much one can do within the house and feels like I am imprisoned at home, but I focus on my academy. My experience with COVID-19 has made me realize that life is short, and I do not know what tomorrow holds, but I have to live in the moment.

In conclusion, the spread of the virus has made me learn the importance of self-quarantine and social distancing as a way to curb the spread of the illness. I have also learned that life is too short, and when life goes back to normal, I will have to treasure freedom as well as my family and friends. Additionally, I will stop procrastinating and visit all the places I wanted and have fun because I do not know what will happen tomorrow or the next day. When the coronavirus menace's solution is found, I will be thrilled that the world will go back to normal, and the feeling of being a prisoner at home will come to an end. I will make sure that my friends and I have a celebratory lunch at our favorite restaurant as we reminisce about the best moments of life.
[1]https://en.unesco.org/covid19/educationresponse
 
Works cited

"COVID-19 Educational Disruption And Response". UNESCO, 2020.
Setiawan, Adib Rifqi. "Scientific Literacy Worksheets for Distance Learning in the Topic of Coronavirus 2019 (COVID-19)." (2020).

Welsh Nick. "The Coronavirus Wipes Out Trader Joe’s Toilet Paper in Santa Barbara." The Santa Barbara Independent.Accessed 15 May 2020.
