---
path: "/ellie-liu"
date: "2020-07-10"
title: "The Silent Flight"
author: "Ellie Liu"
hometown: "Taipei, Taiwan"
---

My whole body was sweating. I kept being woken up by the cold sweat left in my gloves and raincoats. When I looked around the plane, all I could see was **nervousness** floating in the air. I wanted to speak, but only silence responded. The flight back home was supposed to be cheerful and relaxed, yet the only thing I felt was more and more pressure. COVID-19 was now sweeping all over the world, and every country was deeply influenced by it. All the daily routines were now gone. People were facing self-quarantine, infected relatives or friends, and the fear of being infected by the COVID-19. The worldwide society now was like the flight that I just experienced, full of pressure and nervousness. 
The evening of March 21th was rainy and gloomy, it was the day of my flight’s departure. When I arrived at the airport, I was wearing gloves, glasses, mask, and full-body raincoats in order to avoid touching things that may contain the virus. Due to the dangerous situation of COVID-19, people around me were all rushing impatiently and their faces were nervously dark. As I was walking to the airline desk, I could feel the lines of sight watching me and my friend. I wasn’t sure what kind of feelings were mixed in those sights, maybe curiosity or laughter; but I didn’t care. I didn’t have the nerve to take off all my protection just to be like a “normal” person in the airport since there was still no cure to the COVID-19. No one wants to take the risk of getting COVID-19 just because of some meaningless thing. Like what Nick Welsh claims in his article “The Coronavirus Wipes Out Trader Joe’s Toilet Paper in Santa Barbara,” “Who, after all, wants to drown as their lungs slowly fill up with mucus and other bodily fluids?” ([Welsh, 2020][1]) Indeed, no one wanted to get the virus that has no cure. However, while I was waiting for the flight, I could hear the laughter of some people, chatting relaxingly without masks and other protection. Yes, there were still many people that didn’t take COVID-19 seriously at that time. I suddenly felt nervous since only me wearing a mask cannot 100 percent protect myself from getting infected by COVID-19. Before coming to the airport, I had seen the news about the many cases of COVID-19 in Los Angeles. I started to get more anxious and concerned. As time passed, I felt my body was getting heated up by the heavy, airtight raincoats, gloves, and mask. Instead of taking it off, I grabbed my coats even tighter, ignoring the uncomfortableness with all my protection on. I no longer had the mood to walk around the Duty-Free shop and explore new things like I normally do. 
“The XXXX flight’s passengers can start boarding.” I stood up as I heard the flight attendant’s voice. While I was following the line of people, I tried to keep a social distance with everyone and avoided direct contact. There was no one in the seat beside me yet when I founded my seat, so I just sat down and started scrolling through social media to reduce my nervousness. No longer after I sat down, a passenger came and sat beside me. She didn’t say any words and she just immediately started sleeping. I looked at her--- her hands clenched, eyes closed tightly, her nose breathing heavily without pause. I think she was anxious about the current situation too; maybe passengers on this plane were all having the same feelings. 
The **silence** arrived. The airplane took off, slowly sliding toward the sky. The atmosphere was **tense and stressful**. Passengers sat unpeacefully. There was only a slight noise or chatting sound. The silence gave me **invisible stress**, it’s like there were intense and unsettled emotions running under the facade of the calmed silence. I felt like I was in the middle of the ocean, and there were rough waves and heavy undercurrent running fiercely under the peaceful, stable sea level. I sat on my seat, in a stable airplane, with an unstable heart beating loudly inside my chest. I pretended to be asleep, letting the stress slowly climb towards me. My cold sweat started to gather inside my gloves, jackets, and rain suit, bothering me with uncomfortableness. I opened my eyes that were tightly closed, letting the stress and the fear of the pandemic control me. Agitated by my own negative emotions, I was unable to fall asleep. Under the silence, I understood why Jane E. Brody claims in her article “Take Steps to Counter the Loneliness of Social Distancing” that “we’re wired for human connection that can counter the damaging biological effects of stress and anxiety.”([Brody][2]) The silence on the plane is due to the lack of human connection. As Brody said, a lack of human contact will cause stress and anxiety. This is related to the situation on the airplane; everyone was very quiet and nervous. People’s silence causes more and more stress on everyone in a closed space. 

>I felt like I was in the middle of the ocean, and there were rough waves and heavy undercurrent running fiercely under the peaceful, stable sea level.

As time went on, my stress only reduced slightly since I’m more used to the silence on the plane and the pressure. However,  I was still unsecured for the whole flight, and I kept waking up time by time. I could feel the thirst and hunger **punching** my stomach and throat. I struggle minute by minute fighting between instinct and rationality. Sadly, losing the fight to instinct, I drank water and ate foods to alleviate the pain brought by hunger. Yet, I restrained myself not to go to the toilet in the 12-hours flight, winning at least one battle with my rationality. 
When I finally arrived in Taiwan, I immediately saw my parents standing at the waiting line, waving at me when I stepped out of the airport. My lovely dog happily swayed his tail, trying to jump out of the car and ran to me. My stress and fear were all gone at that moment. The only emotion I felt is **gratefulness**; grateful for having such wonderful parents and an adorable dog; grateful for having all that I have now. 

>My stress and fear were all gone at that moment.

Right now, my life now is mostly at home. Whenever I need to go out, wearing a mask and preparing an alcohol spray is the norm of my current life. The experience of taking a flight is not the only event that has been affected by the COVID-19. Everything now is deeply influenced by it. Many routines have been forced to change and people need to accommodate it. My experience of taking a flight is just a negligible event compared to others’ experiences like being a doctor, an infected patient, a nurse, or a relative of an infected patient. All they experienced are far more serious and stressful than what I experienced. COVID-19 is a difficult barrier for humans to cross.
Although my experience is negligible compared to others’ more serious experiences, I still learned from it. I learned from this experience that I need to cherish more on what I have now. The comfortable home, supportive family, sincere friends, lovely dog, and things that I have are all the things that I enjoy in my life. From this pandemic, I understand that people may lose all of their valued people and things at a sudden. Thus, the most important thing is to treasure and enjoy what I have now, trying to live a worthy life at every moment without wasting too much time fighting with my parents or playing video games. As Brody concluded, we shouldn’t forget the experience we have under this pandemic period; instead, we need to memorize those lessons and value things around us more. ([Brody][2]) Also, after seeing all those difficult and sad events that happened due to COVID-19, I decided to improve myself in order to contribute to the world instead of just doing nothing at home. I understand that improvement in myself requires learning things everyday, even if it’s just a little knowledge or vocabulary. Day by day, you may not find any noticeable difference. However, when time goes on, those accumulated hard works you had done will reflect upon yourself. By that time you’ll find yourself becoming a better person. 
COVID-19 event brings many harms to the world, but the experience let me understand how valuable my connections are, and it also let me realize that being lazy can’t contribute to anything to either myself, my family, or the world. I will bring appreciation for all people, who work hard to save people under this pandemic, with me and keep improving myself to be able to contribute to the world one day. 

##Works Cited
[Brody][2], Jane E. “Take Steps to Counter the Loneliness of Social Distancing.” GauchoSpace. Accessed 19 Apr 2020.
[Welsh][1], Nick. “The Coronavirus Wipes Out Trader Joe’s Toilet Paper in Santa Barbara. Can Vice President Pence Stop the Panic over a Possible Pandemic?” GauchoSpace. Accessed 19 Apr 2020. 

[1]: https://gauchospace.ucsb.edu/courses/mod/page/view.php?id=3939813
[2]: https://gauchospace.ucsb.edu/courses/mod/page/view.php?id=3670278