---
path: "/xinmeng-hu"
date: "2020-07-10"
title: "Thirty-Hour Adventure to Home"
author: "Xinmeng Hu"
hometown: "Hefei, Anhui, China"
---
Now, it is a tough time for all people all around the world. In order to prevent the virus from further spreading, a lot of countries locked up their national board-lines, and reduced airlines to the lowest frequency. A lot of friends of mine did not have the chance to go back to their homeland at this time. Therefore, I am lucky to have the experience of traveling from the U.S. to China in this special time period. And it is, of course, a series of memorable moments for me in 2020. As an international student, it is normal to take over 30 hours to fly over the Pacific Ocean from LAX international airport to the familiar seashore of mine in Shanghai, China. If, as planned, I will stay in Santa Barbara until summer break, since spring break is too short for me to go home. Yet, because the newly evolved pandemic COVID-19 is crashing the U.S. heavily, my parents asked me to leave all things behind and go back to China immediately. Therefore, I rushed to pack up and bought masks, surgical gloves, and protection glasses. Then my whole 30-hour adventure started at LAX International airport. 

I waked up at 5 a.m. on the morning of 20 March, while my flight would depart at noon. I was extremely nervous, feeling like my whole heart would jump out of my body; I could clearly hear my heart-beat that morning. The morning of March 20th was a little bit chill, with **the scary silence falling all around Los Angeles**. Steps are rushing, but not much. People are crossing around, but not talking to each other. When I arrived at LAX international airport, I was shocked by the emptiness I saw. Usually, I can use every word to describe LAX, except for empty, but for today, “empty” seems to be the only word I can use to depict LAX; if there needs to be another word, that is silent. Of course, there were people checking in, running from one check-in desk to another, but people were conscious about the physical space between one another. Everyone was in a mask and gloves; people were not talking to each other. The air was filled with the smell of medical alcohol. Few people gathered in-group, rather stood separately from one another. They kept social distancing places from each other carefully. The whole check-in hall was under an anxious and depressed atmosphere. When I was walking through the security inspection, a lady with his 2-year-old son were stopped by the staff because her son was not wearing a mask, I quickly stepped back to keep away from them unconsciously. I did not mean to show any disrespect to them at that time, yet the fear inside my mind made me aware of all kinds of potential exposure of virus. 

For the first 18 hours of the entire 30 hours, I was completely locked in a place less than one square meter. It was hot under the N95 mask, surgical gloves, protection glasses, and protective suit, but I did not dare to take them off even for one second. I could not stay calm, but in order to breathe at a regular pace under my protective outfit, I had to sit still and keep my mind in a peaceful state. I counted the time, forcing myself to inhale and exhale once every three seconds. I did not remember how many seconds have passed during this process, but I still could not speed down my heartbeat, and I was almost immersed in my sweat. I felt my **stomach began to wiggle**, and my mouth dried out. I could taste blood within the cracks on my lips, and I could hear clear sound between joints when I tried to move my legs a little bit. I want to eat something or at least drink some water to keep myself energetic, but when I looked around the whole cabin, no one is taking off their mask. They were all silently seated; only little boys and girls cried for a while from time to time. I felt even more anxious when I saw all of them who sat on the same flight with me could handle this situation much better than me. I squeezed my hand, trying to clear my mind and to stay silent as they did, but I failed. After the long-time anxiety, I began to feel exhausted; both of my eyelids fall together as if they attracted each other like two magnets. I struggled a lot, and I finally reached the point the flight arrived onto the ground again. At that time, I could clearly feel drops scrolling down from my head and the steamy heat under my mask made me cannot bear for one more second. At the same time, long-time being on myself made me feel a little bit anxious and depressed, I was craving so much to reconnect to my acquaintance again. Same feeling has been found in the article “Introverts, Extroverts, and Social Distancing,” written by Sophia Dembling, “ believe me when I tell you that even for an introvert there is such a thing as too much social distancing. I'm antsy as hell. Fighting depression. Finding less pleasure in things I’ve enjoyed in the past. Rethinking how I do solitude.” Long-time being isolated from the familiar world made me mentally and physically tired as if I was in the middle of nowhere, craving for getting back to the land. 

Eventually, as soon as all of the passengers got off the flight, all of us in the flight were listed in line waiting for body temperature inspections. The first time I went through the inspection machine, it shows my body temperature is over the standard range. I was suddenly stopped by the well-protected doctors and sent to a small isolated group. At that time, I almost felt** out of breath for seconds**. My mind was suddenly blank after I was told I need to be double-checked because of my abnormal body temperature. My hands shook, trying to pretend calm by scrolling down the cellphone screen at the corner of the isolated room. Luckily, it was only because I felt so much nervous and was under the mask for too long. A group of doctors “escorted” me to my second and last flight towards Hefei (my hometown). I sat on this flight, and it was already 25 hours after I took off from Los Angelas. I could not help myself not to fell asleep anymore. I suddenly lost all my consciousness, even though I was wakened up several times by air turbulence. I just could not separate my two eyelids. I have never felt that tired before, and I waked up, forgetting where I was at that time. All things that came to mind at that time quickly go back home as soon as possible. 

Surprisingly, after I eventually arrived at Hefei, I was told an ambulance and two doctors were there waiting for me to send me to the assigned quarantine hotel. My heart suddenly released after I saw that two doctors were there only for me. I stared at my face in the mirror at the restroom at the airport. I can only see my eyes through the protection glasses, and nowhere else since all of those have been covered under the mask. And there was seems to have smog falling upon my glasses, all the thing in front of me at that time was obscure. Tears almost broke out of my eyes at that time. Because I eat and drink nothing during these 30 hours, I almost cannot see things clearly, and my legs were not able to support me to walk quickly. The ambulance taking me to the quarantine hotel was under a heavy smell of 75% alcohol, but I was really getting used to this smell during the 30-hours adventure of mine. I smiled and fell asleep again in the ambulance. 

It was tough, tired, and lucky to go back home (the safest place in my heart) during this tough time. Even though I never want to experience the same thing one more time in my lifetime, I have never regretted deciding to leave all the things behind to go back home to be with all my family members. 
