---
path: "/christi-chang"
date: "2020-07-10"
title: "Trip to South Korea during the Pandemic"
author: "Christi Chang"
hometown: "Anaheim, California, USA/ Gangwondo, South Korea"
---
As I open my half-covered eyes, I immediately realize that a dull and uneasy day awaits me everyday. The engine sounds of cars on the streets, a loud conversation of kids from the elementary school near my house, and even small noise people make while walking by the windows has disappeared for several months since the beginning of the outbreak. Today, the United States of America is one of most hard-hit countries around the world by COVID-19 with the result of hundreds of thousands of confirmed cases and tremendous economic damage across the country. For this reason, the virus has drastically changed our typical lives due to the lockdown order all over the states. I have become emotionally susceptible to reading daily news articles informing many considerable incidents related to the virus including the increasing death toll and the number of infectants. I also had to adapt to the strenuous online learning that my college has conducted with virtual zoom meetings and online tests. As I was grappling with these inconsistent, perplexing, and solitary days in the absence of any social interaction with others, an unexpected aspiration that I could possibly go to South Korea during the outbreak. My dad and I had many interesting conversations about the current situation by phone. Every time I called him, he emphasized that South Korea may be safer than the United States, given that the country has beaten the virus with its outstanding quarantine and hospital system for its citizens. I was a little suspicious of his words because I have evaluated the United States as the world’s most powerful developed countries around the world; I thus thought that the country would have the best health- care system that could easily handle a contagious virus. However, I never expected that I would learn something vital through my trip to South Korea during the pandemic.

A somber atmosphere surrounding as I looked at the computer. Click. Click. “Yes!” I shouted to myself with a full of enthusiasm. I finally could buy flight tickets to South Korea after several months passed from the day I decided to visit my dad. The price of flight tickets skyrocketed up to 3,000 to 4,000 dollars for a roundtrip because airlines have announced limited flights to slow the spread of coronavirus among passengers. The demand for tickets have also increased by many international students, immigrants, and travelers that were in a hurry to go back to their countries once the outbreak started showing a glimpse of disaster in February. The day before my trip, both feelings of uncertainty and happiness simultaneously crossed my mind when I packed my baggage. I was already aware that a flight trip during the pandemic would be extremely dangerous since everyone was considered as potential infectants. On the morning of the day May 14th, my family started heading to LAX for an 11:45 am Asiana flight. As we driving on the freeway, I noticed the empty roads with only a few cars passing through the interstate 405 that is considered as one of the busiest freeways in the U.S. For this reason, we could arrive in the airport in forty minutes unlike the last trip taking about two hours from home. The exterior of LAX airport seemed much colder gray than usual with the reason of losing travelers that have been its friends after beginning its operation in 1928. The inside of the airport can be described in one word, dreadful. I could hardly see travelers checking in at the airline counters, flight-schedule monitors displaying only a few schedules, and workers cleaning handles of carts and doors. I noticed that people in the airport looked extra careful of touching anything there or talking with others. Most of them put on filtered facial masks and used hand sanitizers constantly; some even wore anti-virus medical clothing that covered all over the body.
About three hours passed at the airport, Asiana Airline workers began to announce their flight to South Korea and several rules regarding how passengers should behave on board. As they emphasized to wear facial masks all the time and to check the temperature at the gate with the regulation of not exceeding 37.5-Celsius degrees. My brother and I became intimidated by these strict rules because of the possibility of getting rejected from boarding due to exceeding the regulated temperature. Fortunately, our temperatures resulted in the standard temperature, thus we could pass the gate without any problem. This situation made me compare it to the last summer trip when all the passengers around us looked excited about going to the country; I now could distinctly see smiles on uncovered faces with masks. A serious tension inside of the plane continued during the flight. Passengers and flight attendants prevented direct contacts with each other when serving meals or drinks. The hardest thing on the plane was wearing masks for the 12 hours long flight with the 30,000 feet cold and dry air. This was torture. I just desired to skip these 12 hours in my life. 

My eyes opened wide. I could immediately discover why South Korea has mostly succeeded in preventing the COVID-19 disaster right after I arrived at Incheon International Airport. Every single overseas went through its rigorous quarantine by distinguishing passengers with and without symptoms of the virus. If passengers are identified with fever and respiratory symptoms during the quarantine stage, they must get the diagnostic test at the airport and transferred to a hospital or community health center that could further care for patients. After the quarantine, I moved to another stage to sign up on the premise of 14-day quarantine and received a hundred times checks on the installation of the Self-Quarantine Safety Protection App on my phone. Doctor Terence Kealey, a professor of clinical biochemistry at the University of Buckingham in the United Kingdom, published his article, “South Korea listened to the experts,” through the Cable News Network (CNN). He states that, based on the experts’ advice and data obtained by the previous outbreak of SARS and MERS, South Korea has considered the coronavirus seriously. A key that handled South Korea as one of the much lower infections and death toll compared to other countries is the testing. The country has rapidly tested numerous individuals in local community health centers and test results come out at least in 4 to 6 hours by sending text messages to their contacts (Kealey[1]). Reflecting this article on my experience, I remember that I moved to a quarantine place with the bus transportation provided by the government for isolating us from others. I had the diagnostic test after the day I moved to the quarantine place. A long and thin swab was slowly inserted into the deep nasal cavity and rotated to collect my culture. My eyes watered. My passage burned up for several minutes. It was a terrible experience, however, I endured the test because this suffering was worth more than worrying about the virus infection and I remind myself of every health worker that has helped us in this situation. Waiting for the result made my heart beat as it would come out of my chest. My phone vibrated for a text message alarm; I could check the result in 4 hours. The text message displayed my result: Your test was negative. Thank goodness! This whole diagnostic test process just surprised me. I then began to evaluate South Korea’s quarantine system as well-organized with the effort of health workers and the government. When the 14-day quarantine passed, I finally could step in my welcoming house safely and hug my dad without any dangers or anxiety of infection due to the perfect quarantine system designated by the government and the effort of all the people working for prevention. 

In conclusion, going back to South Korea during the COVID-19 pandemic especially would be one of the hardest trips in my entire life. However, this trip provided me an opportunity to acquire a crucial lesson: the government should systematically respond to a national emergency by cooperating all together to protect the communities safely. Based on these, I believe the systematic cooperation facilitated South Korea to obtain the stability of keeping the country safe. I believe that the United States could improve for further spread of uncontrollable virus under the government's rational response to COVID-19 based advice from experts. It is also important to remind ourselves that it is our duty to protect our families, friends, and others by acquiring the right citizen consciousness toward the national emergency.


[1]https://edition.cnn.com/2020/04/07/opinions/terence-kealey-south-korea-listened-to-the-experts/index.html.
