---
path: "/ruilin-he"
date: "2020-07-10"
title: "Lesson from the Epidemic"
author: "Ruilin He"
hometown: "Beijing, China"
---
*“In the beginning, no one cared about the disaster. This was just a fire, a drought, extinction of a species, a disappearance of a city. Until this disaster is closely related to everyone.”* The fact told by this line of the movie “The Wandering Earth” [The Wandering Earth][1], which was released last year, has almost become a common reality this year. From the start of the year 2020, the COVID-19 pandemic swept across the world, throwing everyone into this disaster. If it were not for the epidemic, I would not have come back and lived at home for so long, listening to the familiar calls from my parents for eating hot meals; if it were not for the epidemic, most of us would not have the opportunity to experience quarantine and online college; if it were not for this epidemic, I would not find out that a single thing like eating wildlife could cause such tremendous impact on people’s lives all over the world. From the beginning, like most people, I had a lot of expectations for 2020. However, the epidemic news rolling on and off reminded me that it is even not easy to stay alive. **The epidemic is not only a disaster but also a mirror that reflects the ugliness, as well as the goodness within our humanity.**

*The noon of March 15th was bright and hot, with the warm breeze of a typical Santa Barbara summer day; the clouds could be hardly seen and the sweet sunshine could even be smelled.* I opened up the window to let some fresh air in. “It would be a lovely day to hang out with friends without the coronavirus,” I whispered to myself. Suddenly, an email notification interrupted my thought. In the email, I was notified by my school that the entire spring quarter would be moved to remote instruction and that the school urged students who can safely leave school to do so because of the rapid-spread COVID-19. Actually, I had long been waiting for the decision from the school. Every day, I was overwhelmed by the news about the epidemic-- closure of roads, the lockdown of cities, infected and suspected cases broke new highs. The more news I browsed about the pandemic, the more anxious I was. Now, I could finally go home.

It was night time when I arrived at the Los Angeles Airport. *The light shined dimly. A few footsteps shouted, hurrying on their way. The air was humid and hot.* In my mind, LAX was once one of the most populated places with a countless number of travelers present every day. However, there were fewer people than usual at the airport. The dim light outside of the building perfectly accompanied my nervous feeling. The flight was a war and I am the soldier standing in the front. I was fully armed—face mask, protective garment, hat, safety goggles, gloves, alcohol pad, sanitizer. These equipment are to protect me from infection by the virus or other people. Other passengers like me and workers at the airport also protect themselves with full effort. Under the battle between people and viruses, everyone is a soldier. However, each one also has to protect infection by others. As a result, the atmosphere at the airport was somehow strange. Seldom did people talk to each other and the whole environment was inanimate but tensioned. Before getting onto the plane, each passenger was required to go through a body temperature check. Covered by the garment and mask, breathing is harder than usual. I also feel myself getting hot as if I was staying in a sauna room. However, I can not drop the garment and mask off because of the potential virus. The wait was a long time after I finally got to go through the temperature check and consign my baggage. *I glanced at the airport staff who was about to do her work on checking my body temperature—her face was slightly red, several beads of sweat ran down from her face, her mouth and nose were covered tightly by a white face mask.* As she pointed the thermal detector to my head, I had a bad feeling that I might not pass the check since I had been feeling hot all the time and my body temperature might already rise past normal level. Just as I worried, “Your temperature is too high. Have a sit by the side,” the staff told me with a flat and calm voice. My head buzzed. If I could not go through the temperature check, I would not be able to go home and be trapped at the airport. Just then, I saw the woman that was standing behind me all the time, took out her sanitizing spray, and sprayed herself all over. I sensed her offensive gaze from a distance. I had no choice but to sit by the side. It is natural for people to protect themselves. I totally understand the woman’s behavior, but also felt wronged under an injustice since I was fine all the time. However, the airport staff who had just announced my temperature check result peaceed me as she kindly spoke “You are wearing too much. Just let yourself cool down and you will be fine after a while.” With no one accompanying me at the airport, I suddenly felt someone being on my side.

##Disaster is like a shiny mirror, through which we see the world from a more realistic aspect. 

It reminds us that life is not as good as we think, nor as evil as we think. There are lots of people, like I and the women at the airport standing behind me, who are all egoist. I thought about going back home once the virus broke in California. The woman was only willing to care only about her own safety. However, there are also people that could offer themselves up to others. Under the epidemic, I saw countless medical workers rushing to Wuhan to fight the disease day and night. Some of them were given a mandatory rest order due to overloaded voluntary work. I saw the incredible construction of the Vulcan Hill Hospital within ten days. I saw the donation to China from Pakistan hollowing out their stock. I saw overseas Chinese snap up medical supplies and donated them to the country. I saw mild patients who took the initiative to help clean up medical waste. I know that this is the true goodness and beauty I see. However, through this disaster, I also saw black-hearted enterprises reselling counterfeit masks and driving up prices. I saw some people who did not abide by the laws and regulations, who faced law enforcement officers with harsh words and even fought. I saw the inaction of the Red Cross Society. The evil of human nature can be seen here at a glance. The epidemic is like a beam of light. When it comes in, the warm and beautiful human love will be more dazzling; the stench emitted by the evil and dirty will be more pungent. This is a more real China and a more real world. Moreover, it is a difficult start for the year 2020. The economic losses caused by the epidemic are unimaginable, and the psychological pain caused to the family is difficult to erase. Disasters will always pass, and history will always move forward. For us living in a peaceful age, we have not experienced war or catastrophes. Everyone has learned to cherish after the epidemic.

Human bones will become stronger as they continue to withstand gravity. We will also become more and more powerful due to constant changes, fluctuations, and many problems. From ancient times to the present, people have always played such a way that no matter what kind of cards they get, they can play the first hand. As the line says *“No matter where the end result leads human history, we decide to choose hope.”*[The Wandering Earth][1]
 

[1]:  https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/The_Wandering_Earth “Information for the movie”