---
path: "/peter-liu"
date: "2020-07-10"
title: "Crazy-growing Hair Due to COVID-19 Drives Me Insane"
author: "Peter Liu"
hometown: "Shanghai, China"
---
>When everything is fluid, nothing can be known with any certainty
>
>- **Kate Tempest**

It was midnight when I finished taking a shower and decided to go to bed. This should be a perfect day for me: I finished all my plans today and did go to sleep early enough that I won’t sleep till afternoon the next day. However, I tossed and turned restlessly on my bed for nearly an hour. I stared at myself in the mirror—my messy hair, ears entirely covered, my front hair covered most of my face. My hair either stabbed to my ears and eyes, or became too heavy when I piled them to one side, which makes it so difficult for me to fall asleep. Imagine someone with the length of his hair to his nose in summer. That’s completely crazy! However, I unluckily happened to be that crazy guy because I should have it cut 2 months ago, and the lockdown just came right after the day I decided to go to the barber shop.

As the COVID-19 pandemic broke out, peoples’ lives have been greatly affected. In order to prevent the virus from spreading without manual controls, only essential public facilities like government buildings or take-out restaurants were allowed to be open. Many people were forced to get used to the new living routines that made them feel unsuited, especially the shifted living patterns for daily expenses like having food or getting a haircut. Running out of toilet paper can even become a serious problem according to Nick Welsh in his article “The Coronavirus Wipes Out Trader Joe’s Toilet Paper in Santa Barbara”, claiming that the toilet paper was sold in velocities that are “not achieved since the late, great Cuban Missile Crisis of 1962([Welsh, 2020][1]).” Being unavailable to get a haircut has really become a serious problem that people have never faced before, especially for a person like me who had postponed going to a barber shop for nearly 2 months when my hair was already too long. The afternoon of May 21th was fusty and sunny, with the piercing sunlights pouring from the sky; the cars were moaning lowly and the trees were drooping limply. I discovered in shock that the barber shop in Isla Vista was closed, and it’s not likely to be open again in the recent future according to the podcast “The Side Effects of Social Distancing.” by Stephen J Dubner([Dubner, 2020][2]). Though it seems like a coincidence that a lockdown was claimed after I finally decided to get my hair cut, it’s actually a consequent result of my bad habit of procrastination. Now I learned that it’s always wise to finish every task as soon as possible, otherwise I’ll just suffer from myself at the very end.

The pleasure gained from putting some work to the next day is far beyond the expectation of people who have no procrastination. It greatly reduced my pressure for doing such things which are not appropriate, but people always tend to get amused by behaving something that they know is bad. According to the days passed after the last time I got a haircut, I should go to IV Barber Shop at the ending weeks of last winter quarter. However, I was oppressed by tons of pressure near the final weeks, and couldn’t control myself to relieve myself by procrastinating things irrelevant to study. Everyday I suffered from the anxiety from not getting a haircut and other personal affairs as well and the worries about the exams, and didn’t feel guilty every night when I decided to “do it tomorrow”, like my pressure would be delayed to the next day and I won’t suffer from it at that night. Though it may just take a few hours to get a haircut, a person with severe anxiety and procrastination would find it especially painful when he has other more important things to be done. These tiny but tedious things were like heavy but not deadly stones which stacked on my chest during that time, with their weight growing each day slightly but forever. Every morning I told myself that I must get it done today, but continued putting hope on the next day at night.

As days went through under this painful and conflicted emotional cycle, I was told that a lockdown would be carried out in California, and I was feeling very complicated. It’s relieving that I no longer need to be entangled with the date for the haircut, but also troublesome that I couldn’t get my hair cut until I went back to China in the middle of June. To be honest, the first week after the lockdown was still fine. I could still endure my hair, and the social distancing even prevented the awkwardness brought by interacting with other people in reality with relatively long hair. That was so naive of me to think that I could make it through to the summer vacation without having a haircut since things started to become much worse suddenly after several weeks. Trust me that your hair would really drive you crazy if you just let it grow to the length reaching your nose. My precious time started to be wasted on piling my bangs every five seconds when it dropped naturally to stab my eyes, and it’s not joking that I had to do this so frequently. If not so, my hair would make every piece of skin on my face itchy like there were hundreds of furry worms crawling on my face. **I felt like a boat lost in the storm of ceaseless itch, slapping by the huge tides of anxiety to the predictable future months of suffering from my hair, as well as the impulsion to cut it all with a pair of culinary scissors**. Though it’s not a serious problem, it’s really annoying.

Perhaps the existence of my hair is sometimes not so obvious to me when I’m concentrating on some work, allowing me to take just a shallow breath to relax, but once I feel itchy, the feeling will be engraved in my brain for hours. After so long, I started to get accustomed to my hair, despite the fact that it’s still making me uncomfortable. Within these days, some more problems showed up, such as the increase of dropping hair due to the increase of nutrient demand of the longer hair, which is the reason why people lose their hair, and the difficulty to see clearly when both of my hands were carrying something. I became more and more fidgety everyday dramatically. It even makes me unable to study. When I sat by the desk near the windows which are towards the east, the heat wave splashed. Some insects chirped, crowding into the shades of bushes. The temperature was hot and dry. I read so anxiously. Taking shower used to be a relax for me, but now I even regard it as a burden since it makes me feel like I am holding an ostrich’s nest on my head. Everyday I used the time which could have been contributed to studying and entertaining for feeling anxious, but it’s meaningless to complain since what is done cannot be undone. When I look back to think about this problem thoroughly, I’ve discovered that all the inconvenience could be evitable if I just took one afternoon to get my stupid hair cut. It’s just that easy! Some bad habits of mine may be of no significance during normal days, but once some magnificent changes in life have happened, these bad habits may affect me badly. No one would expect a pandemic of COVID-19 in 2020, but as it indeed happens now, even a tiny thing like postponing getting a haircut could make my life so messy.

Procrastination does provide me with temporary pleasure, but it is like drinking poisons to cure thirst. Some invisible problems are accumulated when a task is delayed each time, which may never break out, but may also break out one day when facing some accidents. Once these problems have occurred at the same time, it’s definitely much more handy to deal with compared to dealing with them on the days that each of them ought to be settled. From this annoying experience during social distancing I learned that we should always try to finish our work as soon as possible, at least before the day that we set as a deadline for ourselves. Just like what Kate Tempest said in her book “The Book Of Traps And Lessons”: “When everything is fluid, nothing can be known with any certainty([Tempest, 2019][3]).” We always need to be prepared for the uncertain future.

###Works Cited

Welsh, Nick.. “The Coronavirus Wipes Out Trader Joe’s Toilet Paper in Santa Barbara.” Santa 
Barbara Independent. Accessed 18 May 2020.

Dubner, Stephen J. “The Side Effects of Social Distancing.” Freakonomics, 18 March 2020, 
https://freakonomics.com/podcast/covid-19-effects. Accessed 17 Apr 2020.

Tempest, Kate. “Hold Your Own.” The Book Of Traps And Lessons.  Republic Records, a
Division of UMG Recordings, Inc, 2019.

[1]: https://www.independent.com/2020/03/05/the-coronavirus-wipes-out-trader-joes-toilet-paper-in-santa-barbara/

[2]: https://freakonomics.com/podcast/covid-19-effects/
 
[3]: https://youtu.be/IDuLEWQGmwc
