---
path: "/tom-huang"
date: "2020-07-10"
title: "The Longest Way Home"
author: "Tom Huang"
hometown: "Beijing, China"
---
What kind of feeling would come to your mind when talking about air travelling? Is it the excitement of meeting your relatives or friends, the curiosity of visiting a new place, or the expectation of lying on the beach at your holiday destination? While I usually have similar feelings, COVID-19 has for once completely changed my perception of air travelling.

In a few months, COVID-19 has spread all over the world. In March, things started to get serious within the US. The number of confirmed cases grew exponentially while more and more universities announced they would shut down campuses and gradually shift to online instructing. The changes took place very fast. Everybody moved out quickly to return home. Within a week, a residence hall with hundreds of residents became lifelessly empty. After making phone calls with my parents to discuss what to do, I decided to come home.

Normally, all you need to do is to pack up the bags, show up at the airport on time and hop on the plane, but during unprecedented times like this, there are a lot more preparations to be made. According to some experts, airports are the most dangerous places that you can contract a virus, and they may be even worse than some virus-hit regions. (Robinson,[1]) Many people who were healthy caught the virus at the airport or on the plane. To make sure this wouldn’t happen to me, I needed to get myself a full set of protective equipment including masks, goggles, a protective garment, gloves and shoe covers. Although I couldn’t find all I needed, I managed to use raincoats as a substitute. It certainly couldn’t protect me like it was in a biolab, but at least it could make sure my clothes won’t make direct contact with potentially contaminated seats. I also got some disinfecting wipes. Unsure about whether the chemicals they contained were allowed to be carried onto the airplane, I brought them with me anyways. 

As I was preparing for the long haul, the community around me went quiet. Those who walked on campus every day seemed to have disappeared. When I did meet some pedestrians, I couldn’t see smiles on their faces or hear the laughters and chatters. To be honest, the last few days of waiting were suffering. Everyday I woke up at almost noon, checked the number of infected cases immediately after getting up from bed and spent the rest of the day feeling boring and lonely. **As Sophia Dembling described, this way of life makes people find less pleasure in things they once enjoyed.(Dembling,[2]) For the first time, I knew how bad it could be being alone.**

Eventually, the travelling day came. It marked the end of the enduring waiting period, but it opened up the next chapter full of potential threats. The moment I walked into the terminal building, I could feel the aura was much different than usual. It used to be a crowded and noisy place, but on this particular day, there were only two clearly separated lines at the check-in counters. The busy international hub turned into a lifeless building with a tall steel roof and the hard marble floor. It was so quiet that I could hear every of my breaths and heartbeats. Although there were no crowds, I still tried very hard to stay far from other people and be extra-careful at all times. I used my disinfecting wipes to clean every single seat I sat on and all the armrests I put my bag on. I changed my gloves and shoe covers multiple times. 

As the boarding announcement came in, I lined up among the crowd and moved slowly to the boarding gate. After retrieving my tickets from the staff at the final check before boarding, I started walking through the jet bridge towards the plane. This trip normally takes less than one minute, but for this particular flight, it took me over five minutes. The reason was simple: each passenger had to pass the temperature check before boarding. If someone’s body temperature was too high, the person would be denied boarding. When I was meters away from the checkpoint, I could see a few people waiting on the sides out of the line. It was clear that they didn’t pass their tests. Suddenly, I started to feel a bit worried. Would I be the next one to join them? I wore a hat all the way along, could that cause my temperature to rise a few digits as my forehead was covered tightly? I took off my hat quickly, hoping that this could make a tiny yet important difference. Then it came the moment of truth. The air hostess pointed the thermometer at my forehead. I stood there, waiting for destiny to take me to where I should belong. Moments later, she said “You’re fine. You can proceed. Welcome aboard.” I shook for a second and then moved along quickly, as if I was too afraid to be tested again. I would never know what was the number that showed up on the other side of the screen I couldn’t see, but I simply didn’t care. All I knew was I made it through yet another challenge. I put my bags in the overhead luggage compartment and sat down after cleaning my seat with disinfecting wipes like I was wasting them. I fastened the seat belt and prepared for the long flight.

This was an unusual flight. During the 14 hours, there was no food or beverage service. Everybody avoided using the lavatories. The only occasion the flight attendants would come was to test passengers’ temperatures once every few hours. Normally I would enjoy watching movies on such a long flight, but on that day, I almost slept for the entire duration. It seemed that was clearly the best way to avoid using lavatories or eating food. My goal was to completely seal off myself for 14 hours. Some 12 hours into the flight, we were somewhere above Japan. Being covered tightly by 2 layers of masks, there had been sweats coming down my nose. Having nowhere to escape, the water steam came up into my goggles and attached onto the inside surface of them, making my eyesight blurry, but I was still able to hold on. However, half a day of being steamed in a small pot had made my nose very uncomfortable. I could feel that I was about to sneeze. There came the decision time. Should I keep “steaming” myself until my nose couldn’t hold on and sneeze inside the masks or should I uncover my nose and reach inside with a tissue to wipe out all the sweat? Sneezing inside my masks would have made me more uncomfortable and even a bit disgusting. However, if I reached in with my hands, the airtight protection I built for myself would be imperfect. All the efforts I had made and all I had endured might be in vain. After a tough period of decision, I made up my mind to blow my nose and swipe off all the sweat. I realized that I might eventually have to do the same if I waited a bit longer and it would be better to just deal with it early. As for the risk of getting infected, I told myself that I wouldn’t be that unlucky for seconds of breathing cabin air. As I pulled up the masks, fresh air came in. It sure was pleasing, but it was also concerning. I quickly got the job done and put the mask up again. 

As the plane docked at the gate after a safe landing, it took me about 40 more minutes to get the clearance to get off the plane Then there were multiple steps of passing temperature checks and filling personal health information cards. Everyone followed the procedure with great patience and awareness. I waited for hours for the bus to take me to the quarantine hotel and then spent two weeks in a room all by myself. I took the coronavirus test two days before being released from quarantine and received my certificate of tested negative on the last day. The more important thing than proving to others I was healthy was that I knew I was healthy and well. That was a moment of relief.

Looking back at the journey, I was probably too sensitive and overcautious at some point, but if I’m given a second chance, I will still do the same. After all, **what’s wrong about being well-prepared?** We need to be ready, especially during difficult times like this. While there’s no doubt we should help each other, we also need to know the only person that you can always rely on is yourself. Next time you’re in trouble,do what you need to do instead of waiting for help.

[1]https://www.express.co.uk/travel/articles/1246974/Coronavirus-airport-most-dangerous-place-spread-virus-infection-travel
[2]https://gauchospace.ucsb.edu/courses/mod/page/view.php?id=3670298