---
path: "/enze-zhang"
date: "2020-07-10"
title: "Enlightenment from My Remote Study Life"
author: "Enze Zhang"
hometown: "Shenyang, Liaoning, China"
---
Everything is changing everyday. I used to believe this sentence in my whole life until I experienced social distancing during the COVID-19. It seems like everything I do everyday is totally the same thing and I can’t even find out the differences between the past Wednesday and Thursday which made me feel like I lost one day this week. Unfortunately, in the spring quarter of 2020, I was told that the whole quarter would transfer to remote study due to the coronavirus. However, for me, I was really excited when I first knew about this news. I am an absolute “Otaku”, which means I can stay at home for a whole day or even several days with a little things to do. So I can always enjoy the time I spent with myself in my own space. Nevertheless, during this special time, I found out there was something different with my normal time at home. I was forced to be at home, which made me feel a little uncomfortable. Meanwhile, I don’t have enough self-discipline to follow the regular time table in order to complete my classes and that also made my own schedule be disrupted. I realized I should do something to change my chaotic lifestyle. There must be all sorts of things happening in your life just like the sudden eruption of the virus, people should learn how to adapt and overcome these things in order to gain some valuable things and make ourselves better.

**It was a sunny afternoon, I was lying in my bed and worrying about my final exam in my winter quarter.** Suddenly, I received an email from the school principal. I had made some psychological preparation for receiving this email since some other universities in the UC system had already made their decisions. As predicted, the email stated that UCSB decided to change our spring quarter to distance learning. The final exam of the winter quarter will be changed to a remote exam or canceled according to the specific requirements of the instructor. **To be honest, I felt the air surrounding me at that time was sweeter than any time.** My final exam might be canceled was the first reason I was excited about receiving this email. I couldn’t wait to share this news with my classmates, friends, and my parents. Sharing the happiness while also seeking their opinions - whether to stay in the United States or return to China to continue my remote study in the next quarter. 

At the beginning, I was very eager to return to China. Because some of my friends still stayed in China to complete their university studies, and some old friends from other schools who were notified of the same news were more inclined to return to China to study as well. As the first country to have an outbreak, China has begun to gradually control the outbreak, and returning to China may be a safer option. But at the same time, some other factors are restricting me. The outbreak in the US has made it difficult to get a ticket back to China. In places such as airports where people are densely populated, the epidemic may become more severe and unpredictable. In addition to these, due to the different national network systems, it is unknown whether the Chinese network system can support my distance learning in the United States. Finally, take the simplest example, the issue of jet lag. Perhaps the time to sleep in China is the time to take classes in the United States. I started to become anxious. **I began to toss and turn in bed.** In the face of such problems, I had never been a person who is easy to make decisions. So I made a long video call with my family group, parents opinions are always the most important things to me. Both of my parents thought that it’s not safe enough to go back to China at this time and it was also too hard to buy one air ticket. Combining multiple factors, my decision was to stay in the US temporarily to continue my studies.

So I started my next spring quarter of distance learning in my own room. As I mentioned before, I am a person who can stay at home for a few days, so there is no difference between the first several isolated days and my usual life at home. However, I was still too naive. Just like what Sophia Dembling states in her article [“Introverts, Extroverts, and Social Distancing”](https://www.psychologytoday.com/us/blog/the-introverts-corner/202003/introverts-extroverts-and-social-distancing) , “Believe me when I tell you that even for an introvert there is such a thing as too much social distancing. I'm antsy as hell. Fighting depression. Finding less pleasure in things I’ve enjoyed in the past”. My negative emotions broke out around the third week of social distancing. **On a rainy morning in May, I broke a bowl when I was washing it in the washing sink. Several pieces of the bowl cut my hand. Blood ran down the sink. I was totally depressed.** There were many factors that led to negative emotions. For example, my friends began to return to China one after another. The price of air tickets skyrocketed day by day. I can’t concentrate on my online class as effectively as I went to school. I found myself with a lot of knowledge that I didn't really understand. It has never been so difficult to complete mathematics assignments for me, but I have to stay up all night for my mathematics assignments in this quarter. Facts have proved that I am not a person who is self-disciplined enough to ensure quality through distance learning. For me during this time, the most frequent thing is that I would rather be bored than turn on the computer for class, so it usually takes a long time to watch several classes together. I realized that this would not work, so I decided to make some changes. I tried to follow the school schedule, and corrected my previous messy time back. Try to complete the things that should be completed within the prescribed time everyday, start my own time planning, and make full use of this isolated time. My friend who returned to China fostered a kitten in my apartment, which also killed a lot of my boring time. I am trying my best to adapt in a new kind of lifestyle. After several weeks of hard work, I finally had a regular life, and I had become more efficient in doing my jobs.

For me, social distancing may also be a good opportunity to improve myself if I can stay safe. Every single thing that came into your life may have their unique meaning. I have never met a disaster like COVID-19 before, and I feel grateful to the people who are still working, and deeply regret the people who have encountered misfortune. Humans are small in the face of such disasters, but it doesn’t mean humans are not strong. We can’t let the disaster just go without any cost. As I mentioned before, we should think about what kind of revelation we can get from disasters, not only a prevention of possible future disasters, but also a kind of improvement for ourselves. It is true that people have a lot of aspects to improve during the COVID-19, such as some important information is not timely. We should improve these disadvantages to make a full preparation for the next time in order to minimize losses. Learn something from the disaster, and that will be a blessing in misfortune.
