---
path: "/steven-dai"
date: "2020-07-10"
title: "A Unique Journey Back To Home"
author: "Steven Dai"
hometown: "Beijing, China"
---
## End With Beginning
"Hi passengers, we have arrived at the quarantined hotel, please bring your belongings and get off in an order." After 12 hours of flight, 6 hours of airport waiting for nucleic acid detection, and 2 hours of bus ride, we finally reached our destination. This hotel was the end of the flight, the shelter for all passengers, but also a lonely prison. After 20 hours of stifling, I finally breathed fresh air. At that moment, *I seemed to see Jesus being rescued from the cross, Prometheus come to me with fire, and Paris citizens conquer Bastille and shout "freedom". Certainly, I did not realize that I had to await 14 days to see the real "Statue of Liberty."* At that time, taking off my bulky and hot protective equipment was the only thing I wanted to do. 

On March 26, 2020, God intended to oppose me, so time passed extremely slowly. I took off from Los Angeles Airport at 8pm Pacific time, landed at 6am China time, and arrived at the hotel at 2pm. Looking at the time, it did not elapse but returned. I confirmed that I am not Alice and did not fall into the rabbit hole, but I prefer to get the happiness in Alice's wonderland rather than obtain the supernatural power of "backward in time" by enduring not eating, drinking and sleeping for 20 hours. And the reasons for all these pains have to start from January.

## Survival During The Outbreak
It happened on a certain day in January. That was just a few days before the Chinese most important holiday, the Spring Festival. My mobile phone suddenly pushed me the "Wuhan lockdown" message. Soon, the spread of a new virus in China became the hottest topic of all news media. The situation deteriorated rapidly in the next few days.The whole of China soon fell into the claws of the virus: tens of thousands of people were infected by COVID-19. The government announced that everyone would not go out at home, that everyone stops to go to work and school, and the economy collapsed. Following, countries in the world temporarily stopped contacting China, and my flight was cancelled. My connection with my home was cut off. Is winter coming? *My limbs were freezing up, and the world had lost its luster in my eyes.*

However, things turned around in March. China's condition has stabilized, but the virus has begun to spread around the world, especially in the United States. It used to be that the United States stopped airline routes, but now it has become Chinese customs restricting planes from the US. To reduce contact with people, my roommate and I planned to move out of school. One day, when we were going out to see the apartment, we received an email from the school that all courses in spring will be changed to online teaching. I jumped up from the bed excitedly, “I can go back home!” 

Since there was not much time, I immediately started the preparation work. I asked my dad to help book flights and asked his friends in the US to help me buy protective equipment such as masks and protective clothing. I packed all the daily necessities into 2 luggages and went to the convenience store to buy enough food, such as chocolate, bread, and compressed biscuits. These foods have a similar characteristic: portability and satiety. When everything was ready, my heart calmed down again. I realize that spring is here. *The hazy weather seems to be clear now. The flowers bloomed with fragrance, the trees grew green leaves again, and the birds were happily singing with the sea breeze.* Everything exudes the appearance of the spring. The day before departure, I solemnly ate this "Last Supper". I felt like I had never been so religious. I murmured: “God bless me.” Thinking of going home, I smiled cheerfully. But thinking about the airport and so many people on the plane, I lost my smile again. That night, I could not sleep tossing and turning. I was happy for a while, and then suddenly turned into nervous. In a trance, I arrived in Alice’s Wonderland.

## A Lonely Voyage 
My time was taken mercilessly by CoronaVirus in feelingless. The next night, I arrived at Los Angeles Airport fully armed 3 hours in advance. My clothes did not look like I was going to a plane, but like I was going to war: an ordinary Hoodie, almost covering my forehead; goggles for chemical experiments; two layers of masks; disposable gloves; and protective clothing covering my whole body, which is actually a layer of plastic. Particularly, like the ancient armored cavalry, I only had my eyes exposed. The difference is that they are armed with the weapon and I am carrying a suitcase. Although I was very hot and uncomfortable, I dared not take off these protective equipment because I thought the airport was very risky. I had a short video call with my parents that reported my situation, and then quickly passed the security check. Of course, this was very tortuous during it, and I found an unmanned corner to sit down and prepare for the final cruel battle.

The trembling airport radio sounded, and this last journey, I finally came. I crept up on the plane and walked back one step at a time to see if there were any people around me who suspected a cold. Fortunately, the entire plane was almost Chinese, so everyone had very strict protection measures, I could not help but sigh of relief. When the plane took off, I dared not speak to the people around or took off my protective equipment even though I was already sweating. When I had to eat or drink, I quickly lifted the mask, then quickly put the food in the mouth, and then quickly put on the mask before I started chewing. The time in between was definitely not more than 2 seconds. When I needed to go to the toilet or something else and had to touch the items on the plane, I must wear disposable gloves and throw it away after usage. Looking back now, as Samantha K. Brooks et al. says, we are [fear of infection][1]”. We do not know what kind of actions will make us infected. We are also not sure whether other people are carriers of the virus. Therefore, we don't know whether we would talk to other people, touch other people, or breathe the air in the plane to cause infection. Therefore, we can only choose not to do anything. On the plane, I lost the sense of hunger, sleepiness, and lost the sense of touch because my body was wrapped. 


> Participants ... fears about their own health ...They also became particularly worried if they experienced any physical symptoms potentially related to the infection and fear that the symptoms could reflect having the infection continued to be related to psychological outcomes several months later.
>
> “Samantha K Brooks. et al. ”

# The Spring is Coming
The long journey was short because of my concentration, and the waiting for quarantine was not as scary as before. Although when I was quarantined, I felt sick and uncomfortable, but this does not stop me from being happy because I saw the dawn of victory. The moment I arrived at the hotel, I felt like I had collapsed, and the feeling sleepy, hungry, tired had all come back . And this kind of feeling for the rest of my life is still in my heart for a long time. I felt like I turned around at the gate of heaven, and then God sent me back to the world again.

After this journey, I think my independent skill has improved. I prepared food, protective equipment, and luggage all by myself. On the plane, I am also alone in dealing with panic and danger, which all make me grow up. Also, I realize when people are in danger, the potential for survival is huge. I can also feel the panic and spiritual damage during the war. Thanks for living in a peaceful age and country.

[1] Brooks, Samantha K. et al. “The Psychological Impact of Quarantine.” 
