---
path: "/celina-li"
date: "2020-07-10"
title: "My Flight and the COVID-19"
author: "Celina Li"
hometown: "Beijing, China"
---

“My friend from Europe said three of her tickets already got canceled; hopefully one of the seven tickets I have can take me back to China.” My friends and I talked about the flights back home again when we suddenly released from finals. Many countries started to give restrictions on international flights; in other words, they don’t want other countries' citizens to come to add burdens to the already fragile and intense medical system. Hundreds of flights back to China get canceled every day, and home has become the farthest dream. The COVID-19 had changed people’s normal routine, for me, it made my trip back home full of emotional change and unknown like the stock market. 

The day Chancellor Yang announced remote instruction was a sunny but windy afternoon, with birds tweeting outside the window; students were studying intensely, and the community was functioning as normal. This breaking news spread like a flood and soon became the main topic over the campus. Everyone was cheering for the additional month of spring break, but many Chinese students and I were thinking of the possibility of going back during the break to escape the massive infection. However, holding the belief school I will need to go back to the crowded lecture in May, I did not purchase any plane ticket for March. At this moment, the plane ticket price was still reasonable, and each flight still had empty seats to be booked. Later in the weekend, we were told that everything officially goes remote for the remaining school year which is when the worry towards flight tickets hit me. Booking proper plane tickets can be an extremely complex process that not only the price needs to be taken into consideration but also the flight schedule; at least, these are factors we traditionally consider. Hence, I opened my apps to search for flight tickets. Every plane departure during spring break is about ¥25,000 which is equivalent to $4,000. This *extremely high price* made me indecisive about going back, but this is just the start of my endless journey during COVID-19 in exploring the plane tickets.

My mom and I considered factors like time, class participation, and price for 3 days until I booked a ticket for April 11th at $1,500. I thought this would be the end of booking plane tickets for me. Because unlike others with several transfer tickets, a direct flight from Air China will always be a safe choice to take me home. Additionally, deep down I was cheerful for locking down a ticket with a low price that none of my friends reached, but I didn’t feel like sharing because there is a trendy saying in China, “don’t set a flag, or it will fall.” This means if you set a goal for something 100% definite, you are likely to fail to accomplish it. I did not want to show off the price and unintendedly cause my flight to be canceled. Taking off the burden of not being able to go back home, I started to pack and move out. A lot of my friends bought tickets right after finals, so I wished them a safe trip and got some first-hand information about the condition on the plane. This information makes me slightly scared about the journey in the air due to the uncertainty in the surrounding. It made me want to *wrap myself like a fragile package* to have no contact with outside. So, wrapping myself became the main priority in my packing. 

I was asked by my parents to live with their friends in L.A. before my flight. On my way to prepare a detailed item for my trip, my mom called me. She wanted me to assure I can go back by booking more tickets. With the rapid change in different transfer requirements, I promised with my mom I will look into more flying options. I made investments like an FBI on the website and with several people I know who flew back through transfer, asking questions including how long it took you to get off from this flight to get on the next one to calculate the exact transfer time. For a whole day I immersed myself in big data – my eyes sore, brain almost exploded, my hand taking notes constantly on my phone to mark all the details. I ended up booking a transfer plane to Taipei as a backup. These two plane tickets were a relief when it is hard to find any. However, I also question myself on the decision of going back. How worthy is it to expose myself under danger compared to living at home? Regardless of how much I struggle inside, I still need to prepare for my flight.

I had all my suitcase ready when I moved out, but I lacked a considerable amount of virus protecting items to secure my trip. The closest flight I had was only 2 days away, so I had to do in-person shopping to fulfill my needs. I wanted to prepare myself for wearing masks for over 13 hours straight, so even though I imagined the grocery stores as empty as a forest after a fire, I had my mask on. I know wearing masks were still not normal in the U.S. even under COVID-19, so I felt extremely awkward walking into the store. I felt everyone was secretly staring at me which made me walk around carefully and try to be *invisible*. I fear that people will come to me and do things that threaten my life because of the negative sentiment Americans have towards face masks and the unstable emotion after being ordered to stay at home for a long time to perform social distancing. Especially in the article “The Psychological Impact of Quarantine,” it mentioned that people who experienced similar conditions to quarantine will experience irritability by 57% (Brooks, et al.). I bought stuff ranging from raincoat to shoe cover to beef jerky, with other cleansing items my bag inflated like a water balloon heavy but fragile. After this “thrilling” trip to the grocery store, everything was finally settled. I eagerly waited for my plane ride, but unfortunately, my flight to Taiwan was canceled due to the new transfer policy. I felt like a pot of cold water pouring down extinguished my hope. 

Moreover, I also lost my bet on the direct flight. I woke up one day in the morning after staying up the whole night; a notification popped up on my phone, “from April 1st, there will be only one flight each week to each country for each airline with a 75% attendance.” I felt betrayed and abandoned by my country mentally when I expected them to bring me back home, but they cut off all the paths. Then I started to blame myself, why was I so indecisive, giving away my chance to go back during spring break. Even I had doubted my choice of going home; now the only thing I am desperate to do is flying home, but I can’t see it happening. I felt like drawing a *lottery ticket* worth $1500 from the airline pool before companies decide which flight to keep. Meanwhile, I received a notification for tickets on Jun 13th; I checked multiple times to ensure I saw the right date. My mom started to play the game safe again, but when I calculated it, I realized it will be my birthday on the last day of quarantine. Being alone to celebrate my birthday made me feel discarded. Together with the extreme stress of not going back and feeling helpless, I cried for two hours. Gratefully, a friend of my dad who worked in an airline found few open seats on the remaining flight due to cancellation. I was finally able to get a ticket that can take me home. To prevent further changes on the flight, I arrived at the airport 5 hours earlier than the departure time. The counter was as crowded as a Black Friday sale but with everyone having their mask on. When it was finally my turn, I held everything in hand readily and got everything done as fast as possible until I held the tickets in my hand. The feeling was unreal, but the ticket dragged me back to reality. “*I can go back!!!*” I yelled silently. 

Before COVID-19, I never imagined I could experience so many last-minute changes for a simple plane ride. Everything that happened brought my emotions up and down like a roller coaster, but these are all irreplicable experiences. When we look back from the future, every change in the normal routine we experienced now will be a unique history we build in a global event.
