---
path: "/john-yu"
date: "2020-07-10"
title: "An Unforgettable Lesson"
author: "John Yu"
hometown: "Guangzhou, Guangdong, China"
---
The morning of April 22th was sunny and cloudy, with the comfortable and cool breeze in spring; the birds in the trees were singing melodiously and the air was amazingly fresh. A young boy sat on a blue chair. His face looked pale, eyes looked vacant, body trembled like a boat in the roaring sea.

I missed an important event, which can influence my future, at the age of nineteen, on a sunny cloudy day in the spring of 2020. I cannot forget the painful moment, sitting on a chair with soulless body, enduring the pain that cannot be expressed in words. That was several weeks ago, but the scene and inner feelings at that time made me feel like it happened yesterday, holding my heart, forcing me not to forget what I have learned.

## Introduction

Morning comes as usual, as common as humans will be aged. However, my routines were different as usual. Instead of going into the sunlight, catching flesh air and heading to the classroom, I woke up and sat in front of the computer immediately, choosing between opening the courses videos or starting to play computer games. This is what I looked like at the beginning of this quarter when all the courses transfer to online courses. Online courses, a byproduct of Coronavirus, help students to stay at home and acquire knowledge via the internet to prevent them from infecting the virus. Many students argue that online courses impose negative influences on students. Without the pressure from professors and teaching assistants, students may form a bad habit of procrastination. Also, the lack of face-to-face communication prevents students from receiving feedback in time, which reduces the efficiency of studying. While there are a lot of bad consequences of practicing online courses, others state that they still produce beneficial effects on students. From my personal experience, I would say that online courses improve students’ time management ability, learning initiative, and critical thinking, which pave the way to succeed.

## Summer

When the first light in the morning came through the window, a young, well-dressed man was sitting in front of the computer. “What?” I shouted, “Why is online class so annoying?” To be honest, since I was a little boy, I had never experienced online courses. Listening to teachers’ lessons, completing the assignments on paper, and taking exams in classrooms were the most common to me. However, online courses are totally different. I woke up early in the morning in order to attend zoom meetings, but the fact was that online courses were taught in the form of video recording, which means students could not obtain feedback from professors immediately. “That's too much.” I complained, scratching my hair with both hands. In the past, all the assignments were written on paper and handed over to teaching assistants. But now, students need to write on paper, take photos, arrange them in PDF form, and upload them, which are tedious. “Yes, so annoying.” Leo, my classmate who was living with me, agreed. Although online courses were not as formal as studying in colleges, I still caught the happiness of getting knowledge, like seeing an unexpecting view after forced landing. For the first week, I was like an insect exposed to the summer sun, receiving the heat wave and dazzling light. The hot air was full of challenges and pain, but the dazzling light was attractive, pushing me moving forward.

## Fall

I got up as usual. After washing my face and brushing my teeth, I, who was supposed to study in the morning, came to the computer, hesitated for a while, and ended up opening a video game. “Why don’t you study?” Leo asked. “It doesn’t matter,” I said, waving my aching arm, “time is enough.” Different from what I expected, online courses actually improve my efficiency. In the past, I needed to listen to professors attentively for 50 or even 120 minutes, which were very exhaustive. Now, I can stop and have a rest when my concentration is not enough, which allows me to absorb knowledge more efficiently. In addition, the way that I can stop at any time allows me to take notes better, and have time to think about sophisticated concepts and quizzes, or search for information related to them online. Therefore, although I play games every morning, all tasks were completed nicely. Online courses were like breeze in autumn, touching my cheeks like a fairy, bringing me cool and comfortable.

## Winter

“Wake up,” Leo yelled at me. “It’s 11 o’clock, you have a bio midterm today.” “Alright,” I sat up from the bed and stretched my arms, “Don’t worry, the exam can be started at any time.” I walked to my desk, sat in front of the computer, and opened the exam website. “What?” I could not believe what I saw, hitting myself to make sure I was awake. The sun was still shining, releasing hot waves to burn my skin. And the wind was like a knife, scratching my face. Although it was still morning, I was like in a horrible night, feeling as cold as hell. “What happened?” Leo asked. “My midterm,” I said in a cry, “I missed my midterm.” Generally speaking, considering the time difference, professors would open the exam for one day. Thus, students in different countries can start at any time. I thought that my biology midterm exam would be the same, but I found that my professor only opened the mid-term exam from 8:00 to 10:00. Although I love playing games, I still understand the importance of studying. My parents spent so much money in order to send me abroad, and obviously they did not hope me to bring a “C” back. If I fail to get the ideal result because of this exam, I will not forgive myself. My hands and feet became cold, and my eyes could not focus. My heart was squeezed by a crude hand, which caused me unable to breathe. I shiver all over, like a child standing in the snow without a cloth. I sat in a chair, standing up, and sitting down again, thinking about how to deal with this situation. Such a tragedy would not have happened if the time of exam had been confirmed one day earlier. If I could plan ahead, I would be able to notice and remember the starting time of the exam, and I would not sleep until 11 o'clock to check the exam. If I could take the initiative and ask professors for important information, instead of passively obtaining, I can also avoid similar mistakes… I had no idea how long I was soaked in regretting emotion until I gradually recovered. I took a deep breath, opened the email, sent an apology letter to the professor, and asked for another chance. Online courses were like a cold ice thorn in winter, stabbing into my bone, leaving me with unforgettable pain.

## Spring

Since then, I have changed my study routines. Before, I was lazy and passive in obtaining information. Now I start to actively gain information. If I don't understand something, I will send an email and ask the professor until I get the answers. I didn't plan before, and the tasks were all completed at will. Now I start to plan the tasks for a week. If I have any questions about the deadline, I will ask the professor or my classmates to achieve the goal of not missing the homework. Before, I used to think habitually so I made mistakes easily. Now I think about everything alone. For instance, for the second biology exam, I did not consider the exam was still from 8:00 to 10:00. I checked, and I was right because the second biology examination time was changed to 9:00 to 10:30. Although it was not a big deal, the change of the time makes me realize that everything cannot be understood habitually. We must have the ability to think critically and avoid making the same mistakes. Online courses taught me an unforgettable lesson, which gives me a new life, like sprouts in spring.

## Lesson

Online courses enhance my ability of time management, learning initiative, and critical thinking. According to 
[“The Side Effects of Social Distancing”](https://freakonomics.com/podcast/covid-19-effects/), colleges are the place to teach students how to think. I believe that most people consider that students can only acquire knowledge from the classroom.However, not only colleges, all things around us can be our teachers. Coronavirus, a detrimental disease, teaches me the importance of planning and not to rely on habitual thinking. Besides that, based on Sophia Dembling, the writer of [“Introverts, Extroverts, and Social Distancing”](https://gauchospace.ucsb.edu/courses/mod/page/view.php?id=3670298), 
an introvert begins to reflect on himself and thinks that proper social intercourse is necessary and helpful to his mental health. Therefore, everything has two sides, and the key is how we look at them.
