---
path: "/pengwei-xia"
date: "2020-07-10"
title: "The Path to Home Seems Far"
author: "Pengwei Xia"
hometown: "Shenzhen, China"
---


This is the first time I have ever thought about whether I should go home. I normally don’t hesitate on this question because there aren’t many chances for an international student to go home and spend time with his family. I remembered that I only needed to take 15 minutes to walk from school to home when I was young because my school was just in my community. Then I went to high school. The high school was on the other side of the city, so I had to spend 2 hours on my way home. Now, the distance from my college to my home is a 14-hour flight and crosses the Pacific Ocean. Because of the virus pandemic, the distance to home seems to become even further than that 14-hour flight. 
##The school closed because of the COVID-19
_The afternoon of March 12th was sweltering and windy, with the harsh caw of a group of crows; the sun was just hanging on the top of my head dully._ Under the severe circumstances of the COVID-19, the chancellor of UC Santa Barbara, Henry T. Yang, announced: “ No student will be required to attend in-person lectures or seminars during the month of April.” Due to the COVID-19 pandemic in the United States, all UCs closed the campus and started online courses for all students in order to keep social distancing. At the moment when I read this email from Chancellor Yang, I laughed and shared this “happy” news to all my friends. At that moment, I was only thinking that I don’t have to wake up early and go to class anymore, but I didn’t realize how much this email would’ve affected my life. A few days later, the virus explosion became worse, and the school decided to close the campus and made Spring Quarter online. Many of my friends started ordering flight tickets to go home. There were a lot of cars in the parking lot outside of my dorm. The parents of the native students came to take their kids home and helped them to move out. I stuck in between the two choices---staying or leaving. 
As time passed, I stayed in my dorm for about a month. One afternoon, I sat on my bed and looked out through the window. The orange and yellowish sunset on the sky caught my eye; I couldn’t move my eyes from it. The images of hanging out with my friends at the party came out of my mind. I suddenly felt vacant because I knew that I would probably have to spend the next few months by myself. The loneliness and depressing atmosphere started compressing me, and the beautiful and shining sunset also started fading. _The sunset matted. The trees weave, shaking in the middle of Lagoon. The whole residence hall was silent and empty. I sat on my bed firmly._ I lost the excitement that used to be within my life. I wanted to buy a flight ticket right away and go home to stay with my parents. However, one announcement from the Chinese government broke my dream completely. 
##The flight ticket prices were raising; deciding whether go home
It was a Sunday afternoon, and I’d been doing self-quarantine in my dorm for 5 weeks. A piece of news came out on my cellphone’s screen. The title of that news is “Restriction to All Chinese airlines in the US.” Basically, the news informed us that the international flight between the US and China is going to be extensively canceled. There will be only one flight per week for each airline to come back to China from the US. The path for me to go home became even further after this news was posted. Less flight available means that the price of the tickets will be much higher than usual. The price of the flight shown on the website became almost $3000, and this is only for one trip. The ridiculously high price flight made my mind indecisive; a facetime phone call from my mom made me torn between these two choices---stay or leave.
##Mom called me
During the phone call, I stared at my mother’s face through the blurry screen---her eye blinking, the wrinkles on her forehead crinkled tight while she was speaking to me. My mom told me that she dreamed I came back home, slowly opened the door with four boxes of baggage around me, and said hi to her. When she was telling me about this dream, I knew that she was trying to pretend that she was just joking about it and showing me that she doesn’t care whether I decide to go home or not, but I also knew she worried about me and wanted me to go home because China is certainly safer than the US right now. 
##Still Debating whether to stay or leave
Because of the difficulties of going back home and the loneliness of staying in the US, I made a pros and cons list of each option in my mind. There are so many unknowns waiting for me if I decided to go back to China. First, I would have to wake up at 4 am in the morning to listen to the lectures or take the exam due to the time difference between China and California. Second, The US government has announced the traveling restriction to our international students. What if I couldn’t come back on time when the school re-open? The last unknown risk is that I would be probably contracted to the virus on my way back home especially while I’m in the airport or on the airplane. If I chose to stay in the US, I would have to handle the isolation and solitude alone, and I could not see my parents for another year. But the positive side of staying in the US is that I won’t put my family at risk of the COVID-19 virus. After all the debating in my mind, my circumstances just reminded Archana Adhikari’s article, “Far from Home: International Students During COVID.” Adhikari also shared one of her friends’ feelings by mentioning, “These circumstances left her stuck in her room overwhelmed by the thoughts that were trying to predict and see through those uncertainties.” I also tried to figure out all the unknowns that could be caused by my decision, but I realized that those uncertainties were drowning me. I was just like a drowner who was trying to push all the water away from the top of my head. However, the water was too deep for me to get away from it. Therefore, I decided not to stress myself out.
##Decided to stay in the US for now
Since the flight to go back to China now is much less available and so expensive, I’m going to stay in the US temporarily and wait till the price comes back down. I’m still potentially leaving the US, but it just doesn’t have to be right now. Even though I’m still stuck in Santa Barbara, the virus pandemic is still not terrible here. As long as I keep doing self-quarantine, I am able to protect myself from the virus. The loneliness and boredom are certainly not easy to deal with, but I would like to take Jane E. Brody’s idea in her article, “Take Steps to Counter the Loneliness of Social Distancing.” Brody suggests that calling the people we close to and re-build the connection with this world are essential and helpful for us to get through this tough and depressing period. I call my parents every day; I tell them that I’m doing perfectly fine here and try not to make them worried too much. More importantly, I will keep being optimistic and patient and stay strong.
_Luckily, I looked through the dusty window of my dorm. The birds were still flying; the sunset was still coloring the sky; the beautiful orange color on the sky was still appearing in my mind. My family and all my friends are still healthy. The path to home is just a little longer than usual._ **This outbreak makes me realize that a lot of things that usually we take for granted should be really cherished and grateful. I now cherish the moments that I spend with my family and friends; I cherish the moments where I can freely travel and go to see the world whenever I want because it is difficult to do these things now.**

Works Cited
Brody, Jane. “Take Steps to Counter the Loneliness of Social Distancing.” GauchoSpace. Accessed 14 May 2020.
Adhikari Archana. “Far from Home: International Students During COVID.” CHER. Accessed 15 May 2020. https://cher.trincoll.edu/far-from-home-during-covid/.