---
path: "/chris-yang"
date: "2020-07-10"
title: "Fly Me to the Island"
author: "Chris Yang"
hometown: "Guilin, Guangxi, China"
---
The ravages of the new virus have forced us to stay at home. A few months of isolation gradually gave birth to unbearable boredom. Some people tease that, before, the dream was to live the life of a pig—— eat and sleep, sleep and eat—— but now I know that the pig's life is not good either.
If it is not isolated at home, we rarely have to live with this boredom. After a day of watching the news, brushing up on a drama, and viewing social media, things that once had no time to do became less appealing during this super long holiday. There is always a haunting voice in the heart, "I want to go out." Our daily mode of existence is mostly outward, with all our attention bet on the outside world—— work, study, play, socialize, etc. Suddenly the pandemic has locked us in our homes, and the long vacation is really overwhelming. One might say it is not a holiday, we still need to study and work remotely. I do not agree with it in a way that working and studying can be fulfilling, while isolation at home does not.

The early morning of June was bright and cold, with the clocks striking at six; the birds started to show off their beautiful voice. I opened the window. A cool breeze blew into my cabin, blew into my heart, and blew over my blue wind chimes. I was in a bad mood. Sitting on the little blue couch, I looked at myself in the mirror across the room. How melancholy! An inexplicable impulse distracted me. Putting on a blue tunic and pulling up the collar, I spread my hair out and let the wind blow. Looking at the blue sky, I raised my hand to tidy my windblown hair, only to find that I was wearing a blue bracelet, which was crystal clear. That’s when I realized my blue heart had been blown away.

Spending a lot of free time for no purpose can make people feel bored, and what we fear is that this boredom will turn to loneliness. The problem of feeling alone when isolated at home is what I am concerned about. In the article “[Take Steps to Counter the Loneliness of Social Distancing](https://www.nytimes.com/2020/03/23/well/family/coronavirus-loneliness-isolation-social-distancing-elderly.html)”, the author, Jane Brody, cited Dr. Vivek Murthy, the former surgeon general of the United States, “Loneliness is the subjective feeling that you’re lacking the social connections you need — the feeling of closeness, trust and affection of genuine friends, loved ones and community.” Indeed, I have found the best way to overcome loneliness is to give my life a support. 

I closed the window, made a cup of hot tea, and curled up under the warm blankets. The clock was ticking. A plane passed by, leaving traces in the sky. The room is narrow, and I can have a panoramic view of it. My Switch was waving at me. I loaded the Animal Crossing—— innocent animals welcomed me warmly, a few friends came to my island, bringing the flowers they newly hybridized.
I came to the river on the island. The curved bridge reflected in the water. On the other side of the river, I saw flowers secretly blooming and, along with wisps of breeze, blowing fragrance. I reached out my hand, but I couldn't reach it to touch its fresh petals. The regret bloomed in my heart.  

Today, K.K., a dog musician, is coming, which indicates the “ending”. I completed the main quest, and it is finally the time for the story of my island to come to an end. I have experienced a very unforgettable ten days of my life here. I witnessed the first deserted island, through my efforts, gradually transformed into a small town. Every day when the island is taking shape brings me unexplainable joy. Every blade of grass, every tree, every brick and every tile here have been engraved with my mark, and it is only here that I look forward to the next day.

How interesting memory is. Something happened a long time ago can make me feel like it happened yesterday, and sometimes it is “yesterday”, but there is a sense that it happened a long time ago. Thinking back to just a dozen days ago when I was on the island, the night of the bonfire that named the island seems like a long time ago, and I seem to have been on this island for half a lifetime.

When did I build my first house? When were all those rambling shops opening up? And when did I encounter these cute little creatures? Every laughter and emotion, every meeting and parting has quietly transformed into crystal fragments in the rotation of the sun and moon, scattering over every corner of the island.

The island seemed to be magical on its own, not belonging to any space or time, existing independently in the most special gaps in spacetime. She always allows us to leave reality behind and enter a different universe, a world that is always full of warmth, hope, happiness, and beauty. She let the people who come here fade away tired and washed away dust. When turning away, we can be full of hope and regain courage.
Although I have reached the "end", there is one small regret. All the animals in Animal Crossing are fans of K.K. and want to attend his concerts. One of my first residents, a little pig named Chie, dreams to be an idol. The day before my island has been rated three stars, the time when I can invite K.K., Chie brought up the idea of leaving the island to see the big wide world and keep accumulating and enriching herself, and I, though very reluctantly, still respected her choice and let her go. I am so regretful that I didn't play faster and welcome K.K. earlier so that she could see him in person and attend his concert. I wonder where she is now. I believe I am able to see her again and even hear the song of the famous singer Miss Chie in Animal Crossing.

Although the story is finished, I can still play on my islands with my friends. Now Animal Crossing has become the main axis of my life. I try to get up early in order to go to the store to confirm the morning price of the turnip. I meet up with friends in order to look at the night sky and watch the meteor shower. When I go to the beach in the morning, I seem to feel the fresh air, and I can't help but feel that today will be a pleasant day. It is a pleasure that I could feel the change of the season and the air while sitting at home. It is not too much to say that I really want to live in such a world.

>Now Animal Crossing has become the main axis of my life. 
>I try to get up early in order to go to the store to confirm the morning price of the turnip.
>I meet up with friends in order to look at the night sky and watch the meteor shower.
 
Covid-19 comes at a sudden, but awareness and protection against them cannot be achieved overnight. As the virus continues to develop, it is not only important for everyone to improve their physical protection, but also their mental protection. In the face of such major traumatic events, many people have the ability to heal on their own. People who have the power to heal are like resilient rubber, which is able to withstand the traumas that the outside world brings and repair the bad effects of them. I spent time with real-life friends and my animal friends on the game. It is my support during this unusual time, and I hope everyone can find their ways to conquer boredom and loneliness.
