---
path: "/shirly-xue"
date: "2020-07-10"
title: "Growing in the Crisis"
author: "Shirly Xue"
hometown: "Shandong, China"
---
What is a time during the COVID-19 crisis that you feel the most insecure and vulnerable? The “collapse point” of mine is also one of the few times I cried since I came to UCSB last fall. During this chaotic and uncertain time, the future is foggy and I am unsure about the choices I have made such as whether to stay in the US or to go back home, whether to rent a house or live on campus, etc. With all the other stressors from study and life, I realistically feel the mental burden this pandemic has brought to me. Previously, I always thought that with an optimistic attitude and active status, we can combat almost all negative circumstances or aspects brought by the pandemic. Now, I still believe that we can overcome the various difficulties associated with COVID-19, and I also understand that the adjustment and resumption can take a lot of energy and efforts. 

What has changed the most since the pandemic is **people**: people’s physical and mental health, people’s financial and emotional status, people’s study and work, etc; however, nature has not changed much as it will proceed regardless of the various ups and downs in human societies. Walking on the streets of Santa Barbara, I can see trees still green and lush, sun still bright and warm, clouds still soft and peaceful. Everything in the natural environment is witnessing the chaos in the human world; they are like the audience of the play acted by human beings. As an actor on the stage, I encountered various occurrences and experienced psychological fluctuations. The natural scenes are still holding their calm and serene manner, but my mood is no longer easy, relaxed, and joyful as before, because who knows if the dangerous virus may be somewhere around this seemingly wonderful place. Since the start of remote education, I moved out of our campus dorm to a commercial apartment, and this is truly the first time I have to manage all the things in my life: from renting a house and buying and cooking food, to studying and keeping up with all my classes. I have been feeling rather fulfilled and excited at the beginning of the life with nobody’s supervision, which gives me a lot of flexibility and freedom; but as time passes, I feel the boredom and tiredness of cooking meals; I am bothered by the need to find a house to rent; I feel confined by the limited space of my room. I miss the piano in our campus residence hall’s lounge; I miss Portola that can provide us with several choices at every meal; I miss the beautiful surrounding environment that allows us to take an enjoyable short walk. Being unable to go back home and having to face all the trivial issues in life, I feel the loneliness and vulnerability of living alone in a foreign country for the first time, which is different from solitude that I enjoyed in the past, as explained by Dr. Murthy in Brody’s article: “Loneliness is the subjective feeling that you’re lacking the social connections you need — the feeling of closeness, trust and affection of genuine friends, loved ones and community” (Brody).

Chinese governments currently limit all international airlines to only 1 airline and 1 flight per week, which means that the majority of international flights to China have to be cancelled, including those of us, Chinese students studying abroad. I originally thought that I would be the very lucky one to have the rare permitted flight, but after seeing many of my Chinese friends posting their cancellation notifications on social media, I became more anxious and eventually, the cancellation happened to me. 

Initially, I was shocked and directly talked to my parents, and during the conversation we booked another ticket. After hanging up the call, I started thinking about this situation individually and calmly, and I found that I would rather just stay here because the time zone difference makes it easier to study and do extracurriculars, interns, or research (even online). Another seemingly minor reason that I chose not to fly back home is that as a student majoring in Environmental Studies, I clearly know that air travel is the most pollution intensive means of transportation. Since I know the importance of reducing our carbon footprint, I also want to have the unity between knowledge and behavior, and staying here is a much more environmentally friendly choice. Additionally, I have also been checking the “New cases” data provided by Google, and the gradual stabilizing trend slightly comforted me, because that means a higher potential to resume classes in the fall. 

After I decided to stay in the US, I picked up the assignments and homework waiting for me, among which the most nerve-wracking one is a 1,500 words essay for my Information and Media class that is due in two days. After writing for a while and feeling really bored and hard to concentrate, I started scrolling my social media and saw a previous schoolmate commenting on a friend of mine, who once had a deep conversation with me about friendship and loyalty. This reminded me of a scene in a movie showing how a girl is really loyal to her friends. At the next moment, I clicked on the movie on Youtube and thought about friendship and loyalty for a while. Later, as I watched the rest of the movie, its main plot, which is very courageous and inspiring,  really changed my current state. The main plot is about how a girl who once did not learn anything but do makeup and play with her friends all the time was instructed and guided by an optimistic, strategic, and hard-working teacher, cared and supported by her considerate and enlightened mother, worked very hard, and eventually received the offer from one of the best universities in her country. This story strongly knocked on my heart because I was just denied by my dream university (transfer application) a few days ago and was hesitant about whether or not to try again since I somewhat lost my momentum. This film, however, presents the difficult and challenging way the girl approached her dream, which really motivated me to work hard and persevere.  

Reflecting on the various factors driving me to run forward, I have often neglected the importance of the extent of hard work, which is about **resilience and perseverance**. With such beliefs, I wiped away the last drop of tears on my face and turned it into forces driving me forward. 

>It is because of the dim hope of achieving your dream that you need to work hard and persevere.
>
>- **Flying Colors ([Wu, 2017][1])**

It is another bright spring day. While walking on the streets of Santa Barbara, I feel less insecure and uncertain. Bathing in the warm sunshine, I feel less fearful about the environment and truly appreciate all the support provided by our school and the local community.       

As described in the article “The Psychological Impact of Quarantine and How to Reduce It,” “having inadequate basic supplies (eg. food, water, clothes, or accommodation) during quarantine was a source of frustration” (Brooks et al.). Our local community’s support of basic supplies, such as food, masks, and toilet paper, are all important for both our physical and mental wellbeing. The presence of such essential support strengthens people’s self-esteem and confidence to continue through this difficult time. For example, the abundant and various food resource assistances provided by UCSB’s and local community’s food banks, the fact that I have not encountered any prejudice or discrimination against me as a Chinese person during this special period, and the flexibility and care provided by our UCSB faculties are all bright lights in this rather dark time. Such kindness and support truly mitigates my stresses and burdens, especially for an international student living alone in the US. These spots of light connect with each other and form a network that constitutes a supportive society.  

The sadness of not being able to go home can be mitigated by the recognition of the many great opportunities of staying around our campus. This experience of undergoing a pandemic alone constitutes the journey of my personal growth which gives rise to a more mature version of myself. As I learn to adjust myself, appreciate the beauty of the surrounding environment, and set a clear target for myself, I resume to a positive and constructive status that I believe is even better and more spirited than that in the former part of the quarter. Everyone is facing different challenges and difficulties, but we also have different resources and even privileges, so I believe the way to continue through this crisis is to treasure and make the most of the resources accessible to us to amplify the positive aspects of our life and mitigate the negative ones. I want to end this essay with a moving saying I heard from another movie: optimism and hard work are inseparable. Let us embrace a bright heart and have a pair of diligent hands to approach our dream and create a better future.


[1] https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=LP2oaq1qTDI&t=515s
